  
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: Well, we`re talking about money and what is serious or not.   In case you haven`t been watching, according to the Republicans at least -- and  we checked a lot of these numbers -- Hillary Clinton is now over a trillion  bucks when it comes to promises and proposals that she would enact if she became  president of the United States.    Lisa Boothe has been crunching the numbers herself and says a trillion...   
LISA BOOTHE, SENIOR DIRECTOR, BLACK ROCK GROUP: Hi, Neil.  
CAVUTO: ... might be a conservative figure, Lisa.      
CAVUTO: But we should say everything from infrastructure support, to getting people back to work, to reinvigorating health care and on and on, it`s going to  add up, and hence the criticism of Republicans certainly at the FOX Business  debate that the other party is all promises, and we`re the only one that wants  to give money back to you.    But -- but go through this. How do we get to over a trillion dollars with  Hillary Clinton?   
BOOTHE: Well, look, Neil, what Hillary Clinton is doing is, she is selling the American people a pack of lies.    And the biggest problem here, Neil, is not just the proposals that she is  putting forth, but the fact that she is promising middle-class families that she  is not going to have to raise taxes on them. That`s just simply not the case.  She is saying that she is not going to raise taxes on 97 percent of the American  families who are making $250,000 or less.    But it`s important to point out here it`s not just Republicans that are raising  the raising the alarms on Hillary Clinton`s proposals. It`s also The Washington  Post. In a recent editorial, The Washington Post said that it was implausible  for Hillary Clinton to not raise taxes on middle-class families to meet our  current fiscal obligations and then also these new policies that Hillary Clinton  is proposing.   
CAVUTO: I always ask of liberals, as I ask of Republican as well and conservatives, ask how your -- whatever your proposing is going to be paid for.  That would include tax cuts, not using dynamic accounting, but the money that  you lose right away, at least initially, from a tax cut.    And with Democrats, I would say the same applies to program. How are you going  to pay for it? We have learned that just taxing the 1 percent, even at 100  percent, isn`t going to do it. So what is?   
BOOTHE: Well, Neil, and absolutely right.   Look, exactly what you said. Look, if you top the 1 -- or tax the 1 percent at  100 percent, you`re only talking about funding the government for a few months  here. So that`s just not plausible. So, Hillary Clinton`s program, this just  simply isn`t going to work.    And what she is trying to do is pander to middle-class families with these  faulty promises.       
CAVUTO: Well, she wouldn`t be the first Democrat to do that.  
BOOTHE: Well, she`s -- no, she`s not going to be the first Democrat to do that.  
CAVUTO: Right.  
BOOTHE: But it`s important to take a look at these policies and realize that they`re just not plausible.   
CAVUTO: It is interesting. The two sides vary dramatically on government. The Democrats want more of it. And if you like that, they`re your cup of tea.  Republicans want less of it, more money back to you. If you don`t like that,  they`re not your cup of tea. It`s interesting, right?   
BOOTHE: Well, I there are some pretty stark differences between the Republican Party and Democrats and what we`re offering American families.    The reality is, what we have seen under President Obama is the middle-class  families are further behind. They`re making less money now than they were before  President Obama took office.   
CAVUTO: All right.  
BOOTHE: And guess who has gotten richer, Neil? It`s the rich.   And so these policies aren`t working. And Hillary Clinton is just going to be a  continuation of the same failed policies that we have seen over the past seven  years.   
CAVUTO: Lisa, thank you. Good analysis, as always.  
BOOTHE: Thank you, Neil.  
CAVUTO: And just a reminder to those -- we do crunch the numbers here, so you don`t have to.    You could tax the 1 percent, take all their money, and you couldn`t keep  Medicare going for a few years. Then what are you going to do with the other  stuff? Money in, my out, more money going out than coming in. Something -- got  to do something about that, right?   
