  
BILL O'REILLY, FOX NEWS HOST: THE O'REILLY FACTOR is on. Tonight:   More global warming controversy as protesters in Paris defy the authorities even  as President Obama seeks to make a statement. Charles Krauthammer will analyze  for us.       
VICKI COWART, PLANNED PARENTHOOD, ROCKY MOUNTAINS: We have experienced so much hateful language, hateful speech.       
O'REILLY: Planned Parenthood saying that criticism of its selling baby body parts has led to murder. Any validity to that? We'll debate it.   
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Have these boys been naughty or nice.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It depends on the day.      
O'REILLY: Also ahead Watters out with the folks shopping for the holidays.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A perfect Christmas gift.      
O'REILLY: Caution, you are about to enter the No Spin Zone. THE FACTOR begins right now.    Hi, I'm Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching us tonight.    Politics and murder: that is the subject of this evening's "Talking Points  Memo".    As you may know, 57-year-old Robert Dear, accused of killing a police officer  and two other civilians after he stormed a Planned Parenthood office in Colorado  Springs. Dear is a long-time malcontent who has had problems wherever he has  lived. Unfortunately in a free society disturbed individuals like Dear run  unchecked and so we have to report murder after murder after murder.    Planned Parenthood officials are blaming the killings on harsh criticism  directed at the organization after undercover videotapes exposed the sales of  aborted baby body parts.       
COWART: We have experienced so much hateful language, hateful speech. Such a negative environment has been created around the work that Planned Parenthood  does around the idea of safe and legal abortion. And we have seen that across  the country from all sorts of speakers in the last few months.       
O'REILLY: Now, what Miss Cowart does not say is that Planned Parenthood is in the baby body parts business and deserves much of the harsh criticism directed  toward it.    The situation is reminiscent of the assassination in 2009 of Dr. George Tiller a  late-term abortionist in Kansas. For $5,000 Tiller would terminate any pregnancy  for any reason. He was nicknamed "Tiller the Baby Killer" by organizations who  objected to his grizzly practice.    I reported extensively on Tiller and after he was assassinated by a man named  Scott Roeder, some far left loons blamed me. The truth is I reported accurately  on Tiller whose assistant was stripped of her medical license after the  assassination. By the way, Roeder was given life in prison, a well-deserved  sentence.    Now the big picture is the assassin Roeder and the Colorado killer represent  their own sick selves -- nothing more. Same thing with the murder of  nine-year-old Tyshawn Lee in Chicago who was gunned down on the street because  his father is allegedly in a gang. 27-year-old Corey Morgan charged with first  degree murder. 22-year-old Kevin Edwards being sought for killing Tyshawn. No  matter what the circumstance, it would be wrong to demonize all young black  inner city men for Tyshawn's murder. It is exclusively on the killers and no one  else.    It's long past time that political zealots stop using heinous crimes to advance  their ideology.    One more example. Again, in Chicago demonstrators are protesting the police  department after a teenager, 17-year-old Laquan McDonald shot dead by Chicago  officer Jason Van Dyke. Videotape shows Laquan holding a knife but far away from  the police officers who were trying to contain him. Laquan was high on PCP and  was shot dead during the confrontation. Officer Van Dyke now charged with first  degree murder.    The Chicago protests were largely peaceful unlike Baltimore and Ferguson. Also  the Chicago PD is a troubled outfit. There is no question and deserves to be  investigated. For years they have allowed mass murder to take place in poor  neighborhoods.    And although it is wrong to convict anyone on television, the videotape on  Laquan is very troubling. It is to the credit of the demonstrators in Chicago  that they are getting their points across without harming other Americans.    But, again, you can be sure some zealots will use the Chicago police shooting to  demonize all police officers all over the country. That is flat out wrong. And  that's the memo.    Now for the top story tonight, reaction. Joining us from Chicago Dr. Austan  Goolsbee who teaches at the university there. All right. Let's tackle Planned  Parenthood first. The guy is a loon -- that's it. Correct?   
DR. AUSTAN GOOLSBEE, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO: You know, I mostly agree with what you said in your talking point there. I think the only thing that I would add is  to the extent you are saying let's tone down the rhetoric, let's tone down the  generalization, I 100 percent agree.    We don't know that much about what's going on with this guy. It seems to me like  he is probably mentally ill. I mean he did go in and commit these mass  atrocities. But we can say things in the public that get people amped up and  lead the mentally ill to go over the edge. It doesn't put -- it doesn't take any  responsibility away from the criminals for us to say let's tone it down a little  bit.   
O'REILLY: No, I'm not going to tone it down.  
GOOLSBEE: And when I see Donald Trump saying --  
O'REILLY: Whoa, whoa, whoa -- let's stay on this. I'm not toning it down. All right.    Planned Parenthood deceitfully started an industry where they were selling the  body parts of aborted fetuses or babies, depending on your point of view. All  right? They didn't want the public to know it. They were doing it for money. And  they deserve every single thing they got -- all the exposure, all the reportage.    You just don't do that in a free society. It's barbaric. Now, if they are proud  of what they did, Doctor --   
GOOLSBEE: You know, there is a lot of dispute that that's what the tapes actually showed.   
O'REILLY: That's what the case actually showed. That's what it was.  
GOOLSBEE: I don't know that it did.  
O'REILLY: Well, if you are not convinced by words on the videotape, then I can't help you. It was clear that Planned Parenthood didn't want this to be public. It  was clear that executives took a cavalier attitude toward it. It was clear they  were doing it for money. All right. So that's clear. There is no doubt about it.    So, they don't have --   
GOOLSBEE: I'm not trying to argue with you about the tapes.  
O'REILLY: Well, you're telling me to tone it down. I'm not toning anything down.  
GOOLSBEE: My point is -- I think in the spirit of your memo. I think in the spirit of your memo which is if someone is mentally ill and is going to commit a  crime, that's on them.   
O'REILLY: That's right.  
GOOLSBEE: And mostly it is the criminals. But let us all just try to be a little --   
O'REILLY: Look, the two guys who shot this nine-year-old in the street -- are they mentally ill these two guys?   
GOOLSBEE: You know, I hope so. I fear not.  
O'REILLY: Is it fair to demonize all black men, young men.  
GOOLSBEE: No, you shouldn't. I agree with you.  
O'REILLY: Right, you can't.  
GOOLSBEE: That's why I say, I agree with that part of your memo.  
O'REILLY: That's by extension you can't blame the pro-life movement or reporters like me for telling the folks the truth.   
GOOLSBEE: And I don't. And I don't.  
O'REILLY: That's the point.  
GOOLSBEE: What I'm saying is let's all just take one step back and not -- either side everybody is going to point the finger and blame every crime is due to what  somebody else said. Mostly, 99 percent is the criminals themselves and they  should be tried for their crime.   
O'REILLY: Ok. I will accept the 99 percent.  
GOOLSBEE: I just want us to let's not make the situation worse.  
O'REILLY: Aren't you a man of the left then a bit upset by the charlatans who run out and try to exploit Tyshawn, the nine-year-old, and the Planned  Parenthood shootings for their own political purposes? I mean I just think  that's sickening.   
GOOLSBEE: I could be for sure. I'm trying not to be hypocritical or one sided in any way. And there are going to be many circumstances where I will be upset. And  some of what I have seen coming out of Colorado, they were highlighting how hot  the rhetoric was of people on the other side and saying they felt that they were  amping up really violent attacks on them. That doesn't excuse the violent  attacks.   
O'REILLY: No, I didn't see any evidence of violent attacks at Planned Parenthood.   
GOOLSBEE: I just want us on all sides to take a step back and try to do less of that.   
O'REILLY: All right. Look, I'm emotionally involved with this because I was accused of --   
GOOLSBEE: -- I know you are.  
O'REILLY: -- tamping that thing up in Kansas. And all I did was accurately report on what that guy Tiller was doing. It was an industry, $5,000, you walk  in, it doesn't matter if you are going to give birth tomorrow. It doesn't matter  for what reason. He's going to terminate if you pay. I reported it. It was  accurate. Kansas took action against the assistant, also a doctor, all right.    Now, I'm sorry he is dead. And as I said, the guy who killed him deserves what  he got. He probably deserves capital punishment. But I'm not tamping down my  reporting because of this kind of demagoguery. I will give you the last word.   
GOOLSBEE: Ok. I would just make a difference between you can -- whatever reporting you want to do, but many of the events in some of these things I still  think ought to lead us to take a step back and just cool down our rhetoric. It  doesn't have to be our reporting but just our rhetoric and let's prosecute the  criminals for what they are.   
O'REILLY: All right, Doc -- always a pleasure to debate with you. Thank you very much.    Next on the rundown: climate change chaos in Paris. Why is President Obama so  adamant about the issue? Charles Krauthammer with the inside story.    Then later, Donald Trump, is he being unfairly by the National Press Corps?    Those reports after these messages.    And in the "Impact Segment" tonight, more than 150 world leaders meeting in  Paris to discuss climate change. Greeting them, hundreds of anarchists who --  you know, pretty much all these international events to cause trouble. So far  French police have arrested about 100 of them. So what is behind these violent  demonstrations?    Also, President Obama using the climate change conference to address terrorism.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We salute the people of Paris for insisting this crucial conference go on. An act of defiance that proves nothing  will deter us from building the future we want for our children. What greater  rejection of those who would tear down our world than marshalling our best  efforts to save it.       
O'REILLY: I'm not sure I understand that line of thinking. But joining us from Washington is a man who does -- Charles Krauthammer. So, before we get to that I  know you want to comment on the debate I just had with Dr. Goolsbee about  Planned Parenthood -- go.   
CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: Because this incident reminds me of the instant reaction after the Tucson shooter, remember the one that went to a  shopping center, shot terribly wounded the congresswoman, killed a nine-year-old  girl and within hours the explanation was that this Jared Loughner had been  influenced and driven to kill by the, quote, "climate of violence" that had been  aroused by none other than Sarah Palin. And people then cited her Web site where  she talked about the targeting of certain Democratic districts for winning them  over to the GOP and saying that that kind of language and image had influenced  him.    Of course, it was obvious from the first hour the guy was a paranoid  schizophrenic. Anybody could see it. You talk to any of the witnesses who had  known him in the past were afraid of him. The guy had this notion that the  government was using grammar to control his mind. He had nothing at all -- he  had internal world that had nothing to do with the external world. And, yet the  "New York Times" had a front page analysis piece talking exactly about that  within hours.    So, I think we have got to be very careful. It's not as clear that this guy who  did the shooting in the clinic in Colorado was a paranoid schizophrenic but  there is a lot of evidence that he was a guy who was delusional and in many ways  paranoid.   
O'REILLY: That's the reportage.  
KRAUTHAMMER: So before we blame anybody, learn about the mental history of this guy. I'm quite sure we will find that there was very little connection between  the debate about Planned Parenthood and this guy's deranged shooting.   
O'REILLY: Ok, now, President Obama, you heard the sound bite. He seems to think that confronting global warming, climate change, is an anti- terror strategy.    I've heard him say that, you know, around the edges before. Do you understand  that?   
KRAUTHAMMER: In fact, he said, Friday in his press conference, the President Hollande of France that it would send a powerful rebuke to terrorism if they had  this conference.    The idea that the terrorists struck Paris in order to prevent or have anything  to do with climate change is really so out there that you have got to ask  yourself what planet is the President living on? I think this is his way of  fending off the fact or trying to distract attention from the fact that the  Paris attack and all the other attacks, world terrorism going on for the last  several months are a demonstration of the abject failure of his war on terror  policy. Of course, he doesn't even believe it's a war on terror. He abolished  the very term.    And this is a way to distract. I mean --   
O'REILLY: Ok. But he has always been heavily invested in climate change -- always. This is an issue that's I believe more important to him than defeating  ISIS. It's more important than keeping Ukraine out of the soviet -- of the  Russian orbit. I mean, I want a clean planet, I'm sure you do, too. But he is  almost obsessed with this issue and I want to know why.   
KRAUTHAMMER: Well, here -- once again you're asking --  
O'REILLY: A psychiatrist.  
KRAUTHAMMER: Yes. All right. So since I played it in the previous little segment, I guess I'm required to play it here.    All right. I will give you one hypothesis which is the best I can do. He sees  himself grandiosely, as he always has, as a kind of visionary. A man who sees so  much further ahead than the ordinary plebeians who inhabit the United States.  That he is now looking generations ahead. He is saving the planet. He knows that  there is no honor to profits in their own time. But he will be honored for  having seen so far.    So whereas you and I and the little people with the blinkered vision are  concerned about real problems -- terrorism, the threat of nuclear, the Russians  on the march, the collapse of world order, particularly in the Middle with the  retreat -- we're concerned with all this he can see so much farther.    These problems in his view will work themselves out the way they always. Yes,  there'll be casualties, a few hundred dead here, a few hundred dead there, but  he is saving us from our own instincts and our own ignorance. That's what he  sees. And that's why he has been absolutely committed to this idea for so many  years.   
O'REILLY: Well, I see it a little bit differently and I see it as a professorial move. This is a theoretical situation where he doesn't have to take any action.  All he has to do is talk and then, you know, impose some restrictions on coal or  whatever he sees it to be.    Whereas the other problems like ISIS and Putin, that takes a lot of risk and he  is risk adverse. This guy is risk adverse. That's what I think it is.    Now we're going to hold Charles over against his will to talk about sending U.S.  troops to Syria and Iraq should that happen.    Also Jesse Watters talking to the folks about Christmas buying -- moments away.   
O'REILLY: Continuing now with the "Impact Segment" Charles Krauthammer re-joining us from Washington.    So Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham are over in the Middle East calling  for 20,000 -- 20,000 American troops to confront ISIS along with some other  nations. Do you support that Charles?   
KRAUTHAMMER: In theory I would as a last resort. Let me explain. Two caveats, number one I would not do it under this president. He obviously is reluctant. He  obviously and does not want to do it. And if he does stuff he doesn't want to do  as he admits he did when he tried to arm, at least he had the program for half a  billion, to arm Syrian rebels and ended up with nine Syrians trained and then he  said oh I really didn't want to do it but did I it because I was told to do it.  That's not going to work.    Or the same way he escalated in Afghanistan and announce the withdrawal date in  the same sentence and a lot of Americans have died, I think four out of every  five Americans who has died in Afghanistan has been under Obama -- a guy who  never sought victory and was half hearted. I wouldn't do any operations of this  scale under Obama because there will be a lot of needless deaths.    Now, in principle, yes but I wouldn't do it right away. The reason is we have  not given the air war any kind of seriousness. I would try to do an air war that  is more than seven sorties a day over Syria. Think about that seven sorties a  day; over in the gulf war in 1991, we flew 1,100 a day. In the Kosovo war when  there weren't any boots on the ground in which we won from the air an average of  139 a day.    Seven a day is a joke. We haven't touched the oil fields, why? The  administration admitted last week we don't want to do any damage to the  environment as if we are playing a tiddlywinks game here instead of a serious  war.   
O'REILLY: But that's the point though, you see, he doesn't want to confront them militarily. So he, being the commander-in-chief, he is the architect of this  bombing campaign. He's telling them not to bomb the oil fields. He's telling  them not to go up. He is the one that's sabotaging his own policy.    So he says we have a coalition of 65 nations. Everybody knows that's a farce. He  says we are bombing ISIS and we're making progress. Everybody knows that's a  farce. You can't take any military action with him in the seat, can you?   
KRAUTHAMMER: No, that's my first point. You can't do it.  
O'REILLY: Right. With the hair, too.  
KRAUTHAMMER: But my second point let's say we got a new president in January 2017. It will be worst. It will be harder. ISIS will be stronger with more  affiliates. At that point I think a, the first thing you do is you try a serious  air war. And by that time, I hope we'll have some Arab allies willing to join  us.    If that does not work and this is a last resort at that point I would look for a  50,000 or 100,000 man army and that would include a lot of allies with America  providing, perhaps, 10 percent. We would have France. We would have NATO,  probably the east Europeans. We would have an Arab/Sunni contingent. A major one  from Jordan, Egypt and the Gulf States.    The big trick is going to try to get Turkey which would have to be the base for  the operation to join. If so, that would be a serious push.   
O'REILLY: Do you think Sunnis are going to fight Sunnis because ISIS is primarily Sunni.   
KRAUTHAMMER: Jordan is attacking ISIS --  
O'REILLY: But that's because ISIS attacked them.  
KRAUTHAMMER: No, no. They were already in the coalition. The Jordanians and the Egyptians know that ISIS is a threat. ISIS has just shut down the tourist  industry in Egypt by attacking them. The Egyptians have a terrible ISIS problem  in the middle of their own country in Sinai.    Of course they will join. But they will only join the way they did in 1991 with  a president like a George H.W. Bush who said this will not stand. I will go it  alone if I have to. And as a result of saying that, that's called leadership,  about 50 other countries actually joined.   
O'REILLY: All right. So you're basically saying we have to tread water for the next, I don't know, 15 months? And ISIS basically gets a get out of jail free  card for 15 months. That's what's going to happen.   
KRAUTHAMMER: But that's our problem. We reelected this man and under our constitution he controls the military and the problem between now and then --  you cannot have a campaign that will cost a lot of lives, led by a man who  doesn't want to do it.   
O'REILLY: Yes, everything changes, of course, if there is an attack here which, you know, the odds are --   
KRAUTHAMMER: Even then -- even then, do you want him ordering --  
O'REILLY: No, do I want-- but he has to then. Then they have to.   All right, Charles -- as always, thank you.    Plenty more ahead as THE FACTOR moves along this evening: Is Donald Trump being  treated unfairly by the national press? Juan Williams and Laura Ingraham on  that.    And Watters going shopping with the folks.       
WATTERS: What says Christmas like a nice firearm for the kids?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sure.  
WATTERS: Yes. Throw it in there.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All right.      
O'REILLY: We hope you stay tuned for those reports.  
O'REILLY: "Personal Story" segment tonight. Donald Trump continues to dominate the political news cycle. His latest controversy almost a week old now about  Muslims celebrating after the 9/11 attacks. Some militant Muslims did that in  the Middle East. Mr. Trump says, he saw the same kind of reaction in New Jersey  and indeed the "The Washington Post" mention as celebratory situation in Jersey  City. The FACTOR is looking for videotape of the Jersey situation. Tomorrow, we  will have a truth serum report on that.    But for now let's bring in Laura Ingraham and Juan Williams from Washington. So,  Laura, is the national press in general too hard on Trump?   
LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I think a couple of things, Bill. I think on the one hand they are obsessing on this issue. Yet this time of year it's  usually reindeer and Santa on the roof. Now their controversy is Muslims on the  roof. And look, it's a legitimate ask if did this really happened or not? I get  that completely. But at the same time, Trump does benefit from the attention and  the focus even if it's on issue.    I will tell you where the unfairness comes in though. The bias I think comes in  on the substantive questions that they don't really want to engage in, number  one have all these global trade deals been really good for the American middle  class. Number two, has generally open borders and unlimited immigration been  good for the American middle class working families. They don't want to talk  about those substantive issues which he does address. And that's what really he  devotes most of his time to. But Bill --   
O'REILLY: But he could steer the conversation, Laura.  
INGRAHAM: -- seeing on the one end, he would try to delegitimize the whole thing.   
O'REILLY: Trump could steer the conversation to those areas if he wanted to.  
INGRAHAM: Right.  
O'REILLY: But continues to engage in the small ball, what say you, Williams?  
JUAN WILLIAMS, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Look, Trump is a master of the press. He has played, you know, he grew up in the New York media market and he thrived.  And to this moment, no matter what he says, no matter if it can't be proven, he  puts the media on the defensive and I think lots of Republicans think oh, the  mainstream media, you know what, they are a bunch of Democrats and liberals  anyway. So, that doesn't matter. Trump actually benefits, he goes up in the poll  by attacking the media. Even what he says, there's no basis for it. Don't  forget, if you are Carly Fiorina, the press went after you on HP. Hewlett  Packard. If you are Bern Carson is on the press went after you on West Point on  this latest thing, you know, the thing about Muslims as president, his mother,  all that. If you are Marco Rubio, they go back into your past. So, it's not just  Donald Trump. Donald Trump is actually benefiting from all this media coverage  support where other people ask for more media coverage.   
O'REILLY: There is more of an intensity about the Trump attacks, I think.  
INGRAHAM: Yes. Bill, you are absolutely right. You're absolutely right. The establishment in both parties, Republicans and Democrats are just absolutely in  a frothy frenzy about the idea of one of the none establishment candidates  winning. So, you see it with the left, you know. Seizing on this issue and  covering it to the exclusion of the substantive conversation, of course. That's  what they are going to do. But also, remember the report about the Republican  donors, big donors in California Brad Freeman, Ron Spogli.    These guys were big W backers, they are good guys but they basically said in one  report they raised their hand and said, they will vote for Hillary over Trump.  So, you have got a big effort out there by the establishment in both parties to  say this guy is, you know, completely out of his gourd. He just says things that  aren't true. And yet, they won't engage in the substantive conversation which I  think frankly most people really do want to have a conversation about.   
O'REILLY: But to be fair, to be fair, you know, it's not easy interviewing Donald Trump. I mean, we are going to have him on Wednesday. I think I do a  decent job of it but a lot of times I have got to say come on. You know, like  that. It's not easy. Because he has his -- it's not rehearsed but he's almost  got, he is fixated on two or three things and he always comes back to those two  or three things. I got the best people. People running the country are morons.  You know, I can make better deals. And, you know as an interviewer, you can go  well, okay, but what about this and then it's right back it to I can make better  deals. So, it's not easy to pin him down on, although on Wednesday I have two or  three new lines of questioning, Williams, which I think you will enjoy it.   
WILLIAMS: Okay.  
O'REILLY: But I'll tell you what, I'm not going to ask him about the Muslim stuff. I'm not going to bother because I think that wastes the time as Laura  pointed out of the viewer. They don't care.   
WILLIAMS: Well, I don't know that they don't care. But you are not going to get an answer. And in fact, some people --   
O'REILLY: Trump says, he saw it. That's it. He says he saw it.  
WILLIAMS: But there's got, look, the business we're in is journalism. So, you go and you look to corroborate the -- no, there is no corroboration of any such  tape in America in the.   
O'REILLY: Well, Juan, watch "Truth Serum" tomorrow. We are looking. We're not going to jump until we have looked into every corner.   
WILLIAMS: But Laura, I want to say to you --  
O'REILLY: Let Juan have the last word. Go.  
WILLIAMS: I was just going to say something to Laura. I say, Laura, why doesn't he bring that conversation back to substance. You are saying, nobody wants to  hear him. I think we do want to hear him. He doesn't discuss them.   
O'REILLY: He can pin it back if he wanted to. But I think he is enjoying the joust. Very good debate. Thank you both.    When we come right back, is President Obama hurting Hillary Clinton? New batch  of emails Mrs. Clinton's tenure at the State Department released today. Brit  Hume has got it. Then, Watters out shopping with the folks. FACTOR is coming  right back.   
O'REILLY: Thanks for staying with us, I'm Bill O'Reilly in the Hume Zone segment tonight. Almost 8,000 pages of Hillary Clinton's email. How would you like to  read all that -- released by the State Department today. Three hundred twenty  eight of those contain classified information which is what the controversy is  all about. An issue Mrs. Clinton continues to walk a very tight rope when asked  about President Obama.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you believe that President Obama under estimated ISIS when he called it the jayvee team?   
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Look, I don't think it's useful to go back and replow old ground.       
O'REILLY: Sure.   Joining us now from Washington, Brit Hume. Okay. Let's take the email dump  first. Anything in there catch your eye?   
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, the 328 number caught my eye, bill, because Mrs. Clinton keeps defending herself on this issue by saying  that he didn't send any emails that were marked classified. Well with, no  kidding that's because she was writing the emails and she would have had to mark  them classified. Listen, information isn't classified because it's marked that  way. It's marked that way because it's classified. So she is clearly, according  to these State Department officials who have been reviewing the matter was  trafficking or at least using classified information or information that was  secret and should have been marked classified by somebody if not her, and was --  it was in her emails. That's her responsibility. She cannot escape  responsibility for this by saying these emails weren't marked. Of course they  weren't marked.   
O'REILLY: But nobody cares. That's how she escapes responsibility. And when I say nobody. It's not people watching this program. But the mass of people they  don't understand what this is all about. They are tired of it and I don't see  this hurting her one smidgen. The people don't like her are not going to like  her and vice versa.   
HUME: Well, maybe the added effect of this will be minor. But she is suffering a problem where people don't find her trustworthy and this cannot helped that.   
O'REILLY: No, I agree that her overall persona is one of dubious character. Would that be kind? Is that accurate?   
HUME: I think that's something she has to really worry about.  
O'REILLY: OK. Now, the other thing she has to worry is that the Obama questions. The worse a president does and right now he is in another losing streak, the  more she is going to be asked about well, what will you do differently? And she  doesn't want to go up against him. That's clear.   
HUME: Well, that is -- I think that describes the problem perfectly. Because there is a very close association, Bill, between the popularity of the departing  president of your own party and the candidate trying to succeed that president.  So, the worse he does, the harder it's going to be for her. On the other hand,  if she tries to distance herself from him and on some issues she apparently has  had some differences with him. But if she tries to do that she risks alienating  those who supported him and she needs their votes. Not most of their votes she  needs nearly all of their votes and she doesn't want to break with him in a way  that would cause him to break with her.   
O'REILLY: He takes it real personally.  
HUME: He might, Bill, but I don't think he would ever forsake her because whatever chance he has of his legacy continuing on things like the Iran deal and  this nonbinding climate deal that's being negotiated or worked out in Paris  depends upon a democrat being --   
O'REILLY: OK. So, it's a passive aggressive play. Then, you know how it is. And he can do certain things behind the scenes.   
HUME: Right.  
O'REILLY: Particularly with the minority communities. It's almost like the Reagan and you covered this, Bush the elder, transfer of power. In '87, 88 that  you had, you know, Ronald Reagan not really campaigning hard for Bush the elder,  primarily because he wasn't up to it physically.   
HUME: Well, that's true. But I might add to that though that George H.W. Bush really was very careful while he drew some distinctions between himself and  Reagan. He didn't draw very many. And it was more one of tone than one of  substance.   
O'REILLY: Right. And his campaign would have appreciated Reagan doing more. But as I write and as we know now, Reagan at the end of his term was shaky,  physically. And couldn't. But they didn't want that, you know, out. So, the  transfer from a president to another president in the same party is always  fraught, and there is a lot of infighting. And I think we are going to see that.   
HUME: Well, and I do think that on some issues, she will let it be known that she differed from him for example on the speed of the withdraw from Iraq on  articulating as the President did a deadline for withdraw from Afghanistan, the  time he was surging troops in there and on several other issues as well. And on  some domestic issues perhaps as well. Although I'm not surethere  are particularly pronounced.   
O'REILLY: It's the same thing. But once she gets the nomination then she'll be a little bit more. You will see.    Brit Hume, everybody. "Watters on Deck." He is in the holiday mode helping some  folks with their shopping. That's next.   
O'REILLY: "Back of the Book" segment tonight, Watters' World. The National Retail Federation estimates that Americans spent about $300 each on gifts over  the Thanksgiving weekend. And some folks like me need a lot of help shopping. We  sent Watters out to the target store in Westbury, Long Island to lend a hand.       
JESSE WATTERS, O'REILLY FACTOR CORRESPONDENT: What do you celebrate Kwanzaa?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We celebrate Christmas.  
WATTERS: Oh, Merry Christmas. Do you say Happy Holidays or Merry Christmas?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I usually say Happy Holidays to be all inclusive.  
WATTERS: Wrong answer. Happy Kwanzaa. So, what's your shopping today for, Kwanzaa? What's your budget for the holiday season?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't have one. I just spend.  
WATTERS: You sound like President Obama.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. Please don't do that.  
WATTERS: You are lucky there is a mistletoe here? You want to ride on my sleigh for a little while?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What channel is this?  
WATTERS: Better. Do you know why we celebrate Christmas?  
UNIDENTIFIED BOY: Because Jesus wants to give us stuff for his birthday.  
WATTERS: Do you know whose birthday it was on Christmas?  
UNIDENTIFIED GIRL: Santa?  
WATTERS: Close. Jesus. What are you guys shopping for?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stuff for grandchildren, for Christmas and for Hanukah.  
WATTERS: Maybe this for Cousin Eddie.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It belongs to Eddie.  
WATTERS: How about for Uncle Eddie?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Eddie?  
WATTERS: Who are you buying presence for?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Family, friends. Extra kids?  
WATTERS: Extra kids. Is there something I don't know about?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, no, not that extra kid.  
WATTERS: What are you looking to get for Christmas?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Cash. I don't like check, cash.  
WATTERS: Have these boys been naughty or nice?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It depends on the day.  
UNIDENTIFIED GIRL: One of you turds is about getting smacked in the mouth.  
WATTERS: You have family coming in for the holiday season?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I actually has family from Argentina.  
WATTERS: Don't overstay your visa, okay? So what are you getting your husband for Christmas?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hot wheels.  
WATTERS: Hot wheels?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.  
WATTERS: It sounds like you guys have a great relationship.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm hoping for something a little bit shinier.  
WATTERS: Flannel pants, who are these for?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My girlfriend.  
WATTERS: How long have you guys been dating?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's a girl. I don't date girls. What, are you kidding me?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You take things too seriously.  
WATTERS: This is a war on Christmas, isn't it?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To defend myself against these guys.  
WATTERS: Someone gets out of line at Christmas dinner, give them a whack over the head.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm Italian, we use wooden spoons.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I love him. But someday, I'm going to knock him on his ass.  
WATTERS: Your kids --  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.  
WATTERS: You save money on suntan lotion, they don't go outside. Instead of video games, how about some outdoor activities?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Would you like to play tennis?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What are you kidding? We can play some competitive sports.  
WATTERS: You got to get him a cup, too.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For which sport?  
WATTERS: Any sport. Balls flying around. You can't be too careful.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hey you guy, oh, my nose.  
WATTERS: Try this on. There we go. There we go.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go!  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh!  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cleanup in aisle seven.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Irve, we were never in aisle seven.  
WATTERS: You guys know how to read?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.  
WATTERS: Okay. Check this out. Better than coal, isn't it?       Do you know what is this is?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I do not.  
WATTERS: I want you to throw that in there. Thirty percent off.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's not too big.  
WATTERS: He's not going to be happy about that. You got to spend more money than this. You are not a communist, are you?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Just intervention.  
WATTERS: Okay.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Good-bye. Have a good day.      
O'REILLY: She did not like you?  
WATTERS: I almost got a black eye on Black Friday.  
O'REILLY: And the lady who threw the book in, she threw it right back out?  
WATTERS: She did not sign that out.  
O'REILLY: Okay. What's the hottest gift at Target? I mean, what is really moving this way?   
WATTERS: Besides your book, which are flying off the shelves. The Legos are the big ticket items. Video games. No one was in the sports aisle. It was empty.   
O'REILLY: I know. That's unbelievable.  
WATTERS: Everyone is looking at electronics and Legos.  
O'REILLY: I'm going to tell the audience that Watters and I played Touch football with the urchins --   
WATTERS: Yes.  
O'REILLY: -- over the turkey bowl on Friday. You need to get in shape, Watters.  
WATTERS: Are you kidding, I -- two touchdowns.  
O'REILLY: I know. But, you know, you were huffing and puffing out there. We won, but it would not be because of him.   
WATTERS: Yes.  
O'REILLY: But you're right. There is nobody playing sports with the machines and all that.   
WATTERS: That's right. That's why everyone is living with their parents.  
O'REILLY: Okay. Jesse Watters everybody. And the FACTOR "Tip of the Day," it's about Christmas as well. There's a new Christmas song that you might like a new  one. The tip moments away.   
O'REILLY: FACTOR "Tip of the Day, some new Christmas music, worth checking out in a moment. First, BillO'Reilly.com Christmas store already under siege. No  spin knows packing up jackets, pens, mugs, shirts, hats and parchments of  American historical documents which you then frame them up. Make terrific gifts  this parchments too. In addition, "Killing Reagan" is still number one up to  nine weeks in the marketplace. And if you want signed copies, please get the  orders in now. As, we'll have to cut them off soon. I can only sign so many. I  can only sign so many. And we can even personalize a greeting for you. Just tell  us what you want. All the killing books including the ones for kids, continue to  be a big bestsellers all over the country. And we thank you all for that.    Now, the mail.    Bob Labenson, Las Vegas. "Bill, your acceptance of Donald Trump is becoming  intolerable. He is a racist."    Well, you don't know him, Bob, so your accusation is grossly irresponsible. It's  my job to cover the campaign and those involved with it. Not to sensor or  eliminate based upon the opinions of others. No spin.    Paul Walerskil, Columbus, Indiana. "Since today's definition of racist is anyone  disagreeing with liberal thought, who cares what some call Trump?"    Bruce Masur, Phoenix, Arizona. "O'Reilly, neither you nor Dana Perino mentioned  that among GOP leaders are two Hispanics and a black man. How racist is that?"    Tiffany Score, Orlando, Florida. "Bill, I was relieved to hear. You say the  Republican candidates should relax on social issues and focus on security and  economics."    Whoever wants to be president, both parties, must persuade the folks, the voters  that he or she can deal with Islamic terrorism. Got to name it. And then they  have to convince them that they'll stimulate the economy so more good jobs are  created. Not part-time jobs, good paying jobs. All right. All the other issues  are secondary, including global warming, which I think is sixth on the list down  in the polls.    Lowell Nutter, Elysian, Minnesota. "Hey, Bill, can't wait to see you and Miller  in Phoenix on Friday."    We will be in the valley of the -- to Comerica, Lowell. We will see you there.    Ronald Oliveri, San Antonio, Texas. "O'Reilly, I finally became a  BillO'Reilly.com Premium Member and will get a free book. I also bought the  entire Killing series signed by you. Hopefully, they will arrive before  Christmas."    It should be there by the end of this week, Ron. We moved it. You made a smart  play. Your pm discount will save you the membership free and much more on this  Christmas and Hanukkah.    And finally tonight, the FACTOR "Tip of the Day." If you are tired of songs like  grandma got run over by a reindeer and rocking around the Christmas tree. I love  Brenda Lee, but I've had enough, Brenda. We have a new Christmas tune, from our  pal Mike Love, lead singer of the Beach Boys.        That's little Mike with his mom on the cover. So, it's a good song. And you can  hear the whole thing on iTunes, whatever that is. ITunes. And there's other  stuff that I don't understand either. THE FACTOR "Tip of the Day." I used to  have a little record player. You put it on, you put the thing on its place.  ITunes.    That is it for us tonight. Please check out the FOX News FACTOR website, which  is different from BillO'Reilly.com. Also, I would like you to spout off about  THE FACTOR from anywhere in the world. O'Reilly@FOXNews.com O'Reilly@FOXNews.com  Name and town if you wish to opine. Word of the day. Do not be affrighted.  Brand-new word, do not be affrighted when writing to THE FACTOR.    Now on tomorrow's edition, we are investigating the Muslim New Jersey situation.  And "Truth Serum" is on the case. Again, thanks for watching us tonight. Miss  Megyn is next. I'm Bill O'Reilly, please remember the spin, stops here. Because  we're definitely looking out for you.   
