      
SEAN HANNITY, HOST: Tonight, as Donald Trump continues to dominate in the polls, some of his Republican rivals are stepping up their attacks.   
JEB BUSH, FMR. GOV., PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's kind of scary, to be honest with you, because he's not a serious candidate.   
GOV. JOHN KASICH, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think he's very divisive, and I do not believe he will last.   
HANNITY: Is it a smart move? Our panel tonight weighs in.   And the president is in Paris for the climate change conference.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: What greater rejection of those who would tear down our world than marshaling our best efforts to save it.    Are liberals more concerned about weather than combating radical Islam? All of  that, plus Governor Mike Huckabee.    `Hannity" starts right here, right now.       
HANNITY: And welcome to "Hannity." So as he continues to skyrocket in the polls, Donald Trump is taking heat from almost every direction. Now, three of Trump's  2016 Republican rivals -- they slammed him over the weekend and even questioned  his ability to become commander-in-chief! Watch this.       
JEB BUSH, FMR. GOV., PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I have great doubts about Donald Trump's ability to become commander-in-chief. I really do. I wanted to  give him the benefit of the doubt to see how the campaign unfolded, but if you  listen to him talk, it's -- it's kind of scary, to be honest with you, because  he's not a serious candidate.    UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE You say he won't get the nomination.   
GOV. JOHN KASICH, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: No.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What if he does? Will you...  
KASICH: He's not going to. So you know, we're not even going to go there. But I'll tell you this...   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So you -- would you...      
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: ... support him, Governor Kasich, if he is the Republican nominee, after what you've just said about him?   
KASICH: I think he's very divisive, and I do not believe he will last, Martha.  
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Apparently, Donald Trump only feels big when he's trying to make everyone else look small. Of course, in the end, he  looks the smallest of all.       
HANNITY: And that's not all. Yesterday on "Meet the Press," anchor Chuck Todd got into a shouting match with Donald Trump over comments that he made about  9/11. By the way, this is the network of Brian Williams. Watch this.       
CHUCK TODD, MODERATOR, "MEET THE PRESS": This didn't happen in New Jersey. There were plenty of reports...       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It did happen in New Jersey. I have hundreds of people that agree with me.   
TODD: If I said, Well, people have said Mr. Trump's not worth $10 billion, and people were saying -- you would say that was crazy. You wouldn't make a business  deal...       
TODD: ... based on retweets and based on hearsay.  
TRUMP: It's much...  
TODD: You're running for president of the United States! Your words matter. Truthfulness matters. Fact-based stuff matters, no?   
TRUMP: Chuck -- take it easy, Chuck. Just play cool.      
HANNITY: Joining us with reaction tonight FOX News senior correspondent Geraldo Rivera, from The Washington Times, Charles Hurt, and former adviser to President  Reagan Ed Rollins is with us.    Geraldo, we'll start with you. You know, first of all, this is the network of  Brian Williams, who's, by the way, back working at NBC News, the network that  altered the George Zimmerman video, the network that blew up that car to make a  point on "Dateline," that really struggled to air the Juanita Broaddrick  interview is another case.    So truth matters -- I guess Chuck Todd will take on all of those issues. Your  thoughts?   
GERALDO RIVERA, FOX CORRESPONDENT: You know, Sean, I've cut my friend a lot of slack over the last several months, Donald Trump, because he is my friend. When  he said the awful stuff about Mexicans being drug dealers and rapists, I  rationalized it -- Well, I know he's not a racist, I know the man.    When he said those really objectionable things about John McCain and our own  Megyn Kelly and Carly Fiorina, I rationalized that they're strong people, they  can take him on on their own. They don't need me.    When he said that stuff about the Muslims Jersey City, I said, Well, maybe he  was just confusing Jersey City with Jerusalem or Karachi where there were  Muslims who celebrated the downfall of the towers.    But if I stand for anything in this life, it's for the right of disabled people  not to be mocked or marginalized. And when he did that thing about the New York  Times reporter, knowing that he was disabled, making fun of him, to me, Sean,  that was a bridge too far.   
HANNITY: All right. Fair enough. But let's stay focused here. We'll get to that issue in a second. You know that, of course, the Obama campaign, from my  perspective, made fun of John McCain not being able to use a computer, but those  were war injuries that prevent him from typing.    Charles, fact or no fact, The Washington Post wrote about people in New Jersey.  They never issued a correction. And the same thing with the AP. They had a  little bit of a caveat in their piece, but The Star Ledger also a caveat. But  those things were reported.    And if the truth matters, you know, why do reporters feel that they can treat  him this way and Hillary Clinton another way?   
CHARLES HURT, WASHINGTON TIMES: You know, it is truly incredible, Sean, the double standard there and the double standard over something that is in my mind  is so -- it's just such a ridiculous point to pick at. I mean, the fact remains  -- and regardless of what Trump's detractors say, John McCain, I think, was the  one that said it most recently, that somehow, he's making Muslims hate the  United States.    Donald Trump is not the problem for why we have terrorism around the world and  why so many of these Islamists despise America. They despise us because we're a  free country.    And you know, Donald Trump, whether he's kind of -- you know, says impolitic  things or whatever, he's the only person voters feel like is out there calling  it like it is, vowing to bomb the excrement out of ISIS, and he's -- that's why  he's doing so well in the polls.       
HANNITY: ... the political side of this, bring Ed Rollins in. You come at this from a very unique perspective. You advised Pat Buchanan. You were with Ross  Perot for a time. OK.   
ED ROLLINS, FOX POLITICAL ANALYST: And Ronald Reagan.  
HANNITY: And Ronald Reagan, too. All right. I don't want to -- I don't have time for your whole resume, Ed. It would take the entire show.       
ROLLINS: Thank you.  
HANNITY: All right. There was a Hill article today in which a lot of fat cat Republican big donors sat around a table at the Hotel Bel Air out in Hollywood  somewhere, and that they as part -- one of the reporting of the meeting was that  they might support Hillary Clinton over a Donald Trump, and I would assume that  would apply to Ted Cruz, as well.   
ROLLINS: Who cares?  
HANNITY: Meaning?  
ROLLINS: Meaning who cares? She's going to have all the money she needs, and if Donald Trump is the nominee, he's going to have all the money we need. And if  Ted Cruz wins the nomination, he'll have plenty of money, too. The fat cats got  -- get to pick who they want to pick this cycle. They invested a lot of money in  Jeb Bush, spent $100 million on a super- PAC. He's done absolutely nothing.    They don't understand this is a different election, and the electionis  very irritated at the establishment. Donald Trump represents the  anti-establishment. He needs to be a little more careful on some of the things  he says, but at the end of the day, he's been -- since the day he announced on  June 16th, he's been leading every poll. He's gotten twice as much media  attention as any other candidate. He's done extremely well, has the biggest  crowds going out there.    And you know, two months from now, voters will get to cast votes, and my sense  is he's going to still be a very strong candidate.   
HANNITY: All right, you know, and let me play an ad that Donald Trump put out. And this is, I think, part of the reason Geraldo -- and I know you're a friend  of his. I know there are things you disagree with him on. But the polls aren't  lying after, like, 130, 140 days now, where he's in the lead.    And this one attacks President Obama over the issue of ISIS. I think in light of  the president's position on the Syrian refugees, this is quite relevant. Let's  roll tape.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They're a bunch of killers with good social media.    Thanks, Obama.       
HANNITY: Add to that the climate change comments of the president today, Geraldo -- you know, Hillary's right there with him on foreign policy. Americans seem to  be craving now a stronger leader.   
RIVERA: I think that -- OK. I agree with Donald Trump that we should bomb ISIS. I think that he's right. He was right about bombing the oil facilities and the  oil trucks.    But Sean, I'm not going to let that previous conversation go without one more  remark. Donald Trump and I are both older than you. We come from the 1950s  generation.   
HANNITY: Much older.  
RIVERA: It was OK to criticize someone for their race or their ethnicity, or you know, the way they looked or even if they were disabled. But those days were a  half century ago. And Donald, God bless him, has to get over it. He's got to  evolve. He's got to -- it's not political correctness. It's just manners. He's  got to -- he's got to really...   
HANNITY: OK...      
HANNITY: ... legitimate...  
RIVERA: ... if you are gracious and have manners.   Now, I want him to -- I want the president of the United States, who's here at  this climate conference saying that this is the worst thing in the world and  that maybe even the climate is what caused ISIS to be created in first place.    I think that all of those things are so far from the mark that that is Trump's  appeal. He cuts to the quick, putting aside the fact there's excessive insults  and so forth. He cuts to the quick. We have to take out this enemy. We have to  destroy these terrorists before they destroy our way of life. Civilization  itself, as the French president said so eloquently, is at risk here, Sean.   
HANNITY: I thank you all for being with us. And Geraldo, get home safe. Appreciate it.    And coming up next tonight on this busy news night here on "Hannity"...       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The United States of America not only recognizes our role in creating this problem, we embrace our responsibility  to do something about it.       
HANNITY: All right, the president offshore, back in Europe, and once again, apologizing to the world, this time for America's role in, quote, "global  warming." So is our commander-in-chief -- is he more worried about the  environment than he is about fighting radical Islamists? We'll debate that.    But first, earlier today, Donald Trump hosted a meeting with prominent religious  figures. Well, two of those leaders will join us. All this, plus 2016 Republican  hopeful Mike Huckabee will be here as we continue.       
HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity."   So earlier today at Trump Tower, Donald Trump hosted a closed-door meeting with  many prominent religious figures and leaders, and here's what the GOP  front-runner said after that meeting.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I thought it was an absolutely amazing -- you know, it lasted for two-and-a-half hours. We came up with lots of good  ideas and lots of future ideas. But I thought it was an amazing meeting.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And how did you address some of the concerns that were raised?   
TRUMP: Well, I think we'll be addressing them over the coming months and even over the coming years. I mean, these are deep-seated difficulties that certain  communities have, and we're going to address them. And if -- certainly, if I'm  put in a position where I can do something about them, which in this case  happens to be president, we will be working very, very closely with everybody,  and we're going to be solving a lot of problems.       
HANNITY: Here now some of the men that attended that meeting. From the Compassion Worship Center, Bishop Wallace Cherry is with us. Founder and pastor  of the Bethel Family Worship Center and author of "Elephants in the Church,"  Bishop George Bloomer is with us. And the pastor of the Wisdom Center, Dr. Mike  Murdock. Guys, good to see you all.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:see you.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:see you.  
HANNITY: All right, it was interesting because I read the story about Pastor Darrell Scott. Originally, there was 30 or 40 guys, they were going to endorse  Trump. Then a lot of other people got invited. He said it was his mistake. He  miscommunicated to people because some of the pastors just wanted to meet with  him and not endorse. Is that the story you heard?   
MIKE MURDOCK, PASTOR OF THE WISDOM CENTER: The story I heard, he just -- that we just wanted to meet with him. I heard no pressure, no invitation. I was not  requested to endorse him. Nobody else that I know of was.   
HANNITY: Tell us about the meeting. What did you think of the meeting?  
BISHOP GEORGE BLOOMER, FOUNDER AND PASTOR, BETHEL FAMILY WORSHIP CENTER: Well, it was -- it was -- this is my fourth time meeting with him. It was a great  meeting. I wept to the meeting this time to raise a question about some of the  things that's been happening on the campaign, the racial issues with the -- some  things that he had said about...   
HANNITY: Any one in particular?  
BLOOMER: The Black Lives Matter -- Hagler...      
BLOOMER: Hickler. Thank you very much.      
HANNITY: It happens to me when I speak, too, Pastor.  
BLOOMER: Yes. And what impressed me was that -- I raised that question. I was the one that raised the question to talk to him about that. For a half an hour  to 40 minutes, we discussed that issue.   
HANNITY: And how did you feel after it?  
BLOOMER: I felt good about that. I was OK with what, you know, his answers to when we had put   
HANNITY: Let me ask Pastor -- Bishop Cherry this. You know, Bishop, when they were asking the Democratic candidates do black lives matter or all lives matter,  I was a little shocked at the answer, Bernie Sanders and Martin O'Malley and  Hillary Clinton. I was taught to believe that we're all children of God, that  we're all God's children.    What's the answer? Isn't the answer all lives matter, every life matters?   
BISHOP WALLACE CHERRY, COMPASSION WORSHIP CENTER: All lives does matter. Sometimes fear, when fear is instituted, things that people fear, they have a  tendency to attack.    And I truly believe that all lives matter, regardless to what your race may be  or the culture that you may have grown up in or even to your stance. There  again, just as you first stated, you know, God loves us all, and he doesn't  separate us by race. He looks at us as being the human race.   
HANNITY: I agree with that. You know, I'm going to get a little political here. OK. And I know the majority were African-American, black ministers, pastors,  bishops, correct?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Latinos also.  
HANNITY: And I look at those people that have been hurt the most, I would argue, under this president's policies, disproportionately so, are black Americans,  Hispanic Americans.    And I care about all people. I don't want to see 94.5 million Americans out of  the labor force. I don't want to see the black teenage unemployment rate of 50  percent. I don't want to see 50 million Americans in poverty. I don't want 46  million Americans on food stamps.    These are all millions and millions more since this man has become president!  Why does the Republican Party have a problem with the black and Hispanic vote?  Let me start with you.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know why they have a problem with it, but I was invited to a concert, and the choir came out and started singing. I hadn't -- I  didn't hear my hymn yet.    I was raised on government cheese and government butter, food stamps, welfare.  Welfare is the most damnable thing that can happen to this nation. It makes you  a permanent underclass. It keeps you running around with your hand out, thinking  that you're entitled to something, someone owes you something.    So any presidential candidate that is out there, as a pastor, that would invite  me to come and listen to them, I want to hear what they have to say that is  going to help change this...   
HANNITY: I like what Trump did today. I like that Rand Paul went to historically black colleges to reach out. When I was a local talk show host in Atlanta, I met  Hosea Williams and Andy Young and Maynard Jackson and Joseph Lowery. They didn't  agree with me. I went to an NAACP meeting there. You know, I was the only guy in  the room that was a conservative.    And I made a case that when conservatives are advancing that are black, like  Clarence Thomas, don't abandon them. That's a good thing for America. Reaction.   
MURDOCK: I'm persuaded that the voice you honor controls your future. I cannot change your life until I know whose voice you trust. I listened for three things  today in the meeting. Number one, the sound of real.   
HANNITY: Did he sound real?  
MURDOCK: As real as any human I've met.  
HANNITY: He doesn't really have a filter, does he.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No!      
MURDOCK: That's the secret of his appeal.  
HANNITY: Yes.  
MURDOCK: I think we've heard calculation. I think we've heard -- and you know, he's walking among the snakes. And when you walk among the snakes, you can't  always kill -- you know, cut off the head.   
HANNITY: I think I've heard something about be wise as a serpent and as harmless as a dove. I read that somewhere.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.  
HANNITY: You know where I might have read that?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The bible.  
HANNITY: Oh, the bible. Yes. Oh, you mean it's not -- that book has sold more than Trump's book?       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Absolutely.  
HANNITY: All right. I got to tell him that.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Number two, I look at history. What did you do yesterday? What did you do last week? What did you do with your life? What did you do with  your knowledge? Who did you train? Who did you change?    The third thing I was listening for today is passion. Passion. And I actually  heard it. Oh, I've heard it. I've read all of his books, of course, never met  him until today. But I was listening for the passion, the passion -- the craving  of Americans...   
HANNITY: You can support him.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I can.  
HANNITY: Can you support him?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm waiting for a few more songs from the choir.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK. Good. Good...  
MURDOCK: We're also waiting for the mistakes from the other candidates.  
HANNITY: What do you think, God's going to send a beautiful dove over your head and the choirs of angels are going to come down and sing to you?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's what they do.      
HANNITY: I haven't seen angels yet. They're smart enough to stay away from me. Bishop, what were your thoughts about...   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This was a meeting that when I came, I came with an open mind, not -- no preconceived notions, didn't want to come in as the judge and I  was going to crucify this man. I just came with an open mind, just to see what  issues that he stands for, how was he going to change? Because so oftentimes,  those who are running for president make a lot of promises. And it becomes...   
HANNITY: In my business, we call it BS. You know, I don't want to say a bad word on TV, though, Pastor.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And during the political time, it's called courting color.  
HANNITY: That's true.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And courting color, you need to sprinkle a little color on. So I want to make sure that, you know...   
HANNITY: Did you believe him? Did you find him sincere in what he said to you?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What he said today, I will have to say that I kind of felt that he was sincere from the heart. There again, the bible said that out of the  abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh.   
HANNITY: And maybe the fact that he doesn't have a filter, you're getting the real him.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, and the thing of it is -- well, like, how do I know you? And some things that you may say may offend me.   
HANNITY: Me?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But I should at least listen to what you have to say before I judge.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And to sit in the room with a bunch of African- American preachers and stay there for two hours and a half...       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... and take the gruelingthat was going on inside that room...   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And he was not uncomfortable.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And he was not uncomfortable with it!  
HANNITY: You know what? I hope as a conservative who believes conservatism can change the country -- I hope this outreach is just the beginning of days and  that I hope that people in the black community, Hispanic community, will listen  to ideas because I think, in the end, those ideas will make their lives better.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're a conservative?  
HANNITY: Yes, sir.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, I'm a concern-ative.  
HANNITY: I'm a concern-ative and a conservative.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I'm looking to see...  
HANNITY: All right. I want to go to all your churches now. I think I'd like to -- I'd like to sit there. I can't sing, though, so don't let me sing.       
HANNITY: All right, thank you, all, for being with us.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.  
HANNITY: God bless you all.   All right, coming up next tonight on this busy "Hannity"...       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I believe, in the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., that there is such a thing as being too late. And when  it comes to climate change, that hour is almost upon us.       
HANNITY: All right, the president evoking Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., during the climate conference in Paris. But is he putting American lives at risk by  caring more about the environment, and quote, "global warming," climate change,  global cooling, than maybe fighting radical Islamists?    And then later tonight...       
HILLARY CLINTON, FMR. SEC. OF STATE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We came out of the White House not only dead broke, but in debt.    -- awful Internet video that we had nothing to do with.       
HANNITY: The top seven Hillary Clinton lies. We put it all together for you so you can make a wise decision when you go in the voting booth. Straight ahead.   
HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." So liberals are putting national security of Americans at risk. The president's out there strutting around Paris  at the climate change conference, and it appears he's more concerned about the  weather than he is about fighting radical Islamists. He can't even say the words  "radical Islamic terrorism."    Now, here are just a few of the outrageous things the president has said in just  the past 24 hours.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We salute the people of Paris for insisting this crucial conference go on. What greater rejection of those who  would tear down our world than marshaling our best efforts to save it.    I've come here personally as leader of the world's largest economy and the  second largest emitter to say that the United States of America not only  recognizes our role in creating this problem, we embrace our responsibility to  do something about it.    For I believe, in the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., that there is such a  thing as being too late. And when it comes to climate change, that hour is  almost upon us.       
HANNITY: Now, those remarks are outrageous, to say the least, but here's what is even more alarming. Listen to what former CIA directorMike Morell had to  say about President Obama's concern for the climate when it came to fighting  ISIS? Listen to this.       
MIKE MORELL, FMR. DEPUTY DIR. OF CIA: Prior to Paris, there seemed to be a judgment, right -- I don't sit in the Sit Room anymore, but there seems to be --  there seemed to have been a judgment that, Look, we don't want to destroy these  oil tankers because that's infrastructure that's going to be necessary to  support the people when ISIS isn't there anymore and it's going to create  environmental damage. And we didn't go after oil wells, actually hitting oil  wells that ISIS controls, because we didn't want to do environmental damage and  we didn't want to destroy that infrastructure.       
HANNITY: Are you kidding me? What an admission! now, the president is not the only one on the left who is more concerned about climate change. Remember when  Bernie Sanders actually said this? Watch this.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator Sanders, greatest  
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The scientific community is telling us if we do not address the global crisis of climate change, transform  our energy system away from fossil fuels to sustainable energy...       
SANDERS: ... the planet that we're going to be leaving our kids and our grandchildren may well not be habitable. That is a major crisis.       
HANNITY: All right, here now with reaction are eco-entrepreneur Howard Gould and chief meteorologist at Weatherbell.com, of course, our good friend Joe Bastardi.    All right, so the greatest national security threat isn't ISIS, isn't radical  mullahs threatening to wipe Israel off the map, it's climate change? Then we  have we didn't destroy the tankers of ISIS because we didn't want to hurt the  environment.    Meanwhile, they're beheading people. And then, of course, the president  apologizing, saying, Well, we're the second largest emitter.    Let me give you one fact before we get started. Since 2006, according to the  International Energy Agency, emissions today in America are down to 1992 levels  when we had 50 million fewer people in America.    So do you believe that? Do you think climate change is a bigger threat than  ISIS?   
HOWARD GOULD, ECO-ENTREPRENEUR: Sure. I think in the long-term goal, it absolutely is a bigger...       
HANNITY: You're nuts. You are insane if you believe that.  
GOULD: Why is it nuts? I mean, we can sit here...      
GOULD: ... and talk about the link between how ISIS was actually formed, about droughts that have happened, but the fact is that it's is almost like a  whac-a-mole game, that you have different areas that are under stress are going  to pop up terrorist...   
HANNITY: If you believe that...  
GOULD: The idea, Sean, is...  
HANNITY: You are nuts!  
GOULD: ... you need to address...      
GOULD: But you need to address the greater cause at the same time.  
HANNITY: OK. Here's the thing. You have people that are hopping off people's heads. They represent -- they're advancing a caliphate to destroy all human  living creatures. It's convert or die. That's a bigger threat.    Joe Bastardi, let me talk -- you go back to 1970s, you got "Time" magazine, the  next ice age is coming. That was the big cry of the left. Then it became global  warming. Then it became, Well let's just call it climate change because if it  snows, it's global warming. If it cools, it's global warming. Everything is  so everything falls under the banner of climate change.    You study the climate. Are we in a cooling period, are we in a warming period,  where are we?   
JOE BASTARDI, CHIEF METEOROLOGIST, WEATHERBELL.COM: Well, climate is the foundation to create a forecast. You need to know what happened yesterday to  know what happens tomorrow...   
HANNITY: And you know the history of every storm.  
BASTARDI: If anybody out there would look at the geological time scale of the earth, you cannot see any linkage between CO2 and temperatures. So why now, OK?  Why are we -- and I'll ask Howard this question. Do you believe the increase of  one molecule of CO2 out of every 10,000 molecules of air over a 100-year period  is suddenly stronger than the sun, the oceans, stochastic events, the very  design of the system, yet never before has this occurred? So do you believe  that? Do you know...       
BASTARDI: Do you know when that ice age -- is it 7,000 parts per million? We've had warmer times when we've had less carbon dioxide!       
GOULD: ... has to do with perturbations in, actually, the orbit of the earth...  
BASTARDI: So how do you know what's going on now?  
GOULD: No, but the fact is -- the fact is that I heard you talk about the idea that CO2 is not adding to warming with the theory of thermodynamics...   
HANNITY: I got a question. Can I ask a question?      
GOULD: ... which is completely wrong...  
BASTARDI: No one said -- no one said, Howard, it doesn't add. It has...      
HANNITY: Is it a greenhouse gas?  
GOULD: Of course it's a greenhouse gas. It's one of the smallest greenhouse gas. There is no increase in water vapor. If we were having an increase in water  vapor, you're worried about this.    But let me ask you this question. If you look back --   
BASTARDI: Ocean acidity, how do you count there 400 parts per million of CO2 and it has been rising since 1980.   
BASTARDI: How do you account for 700 parts per million and in the United States then? Let me ask you a question, what is your definition of weather and climate.  I want to hear that.   
GOULD: I think weather is a short term --  
BASTARDI: No, no.  
GOULD: And long-term is the climate.  
BASTARDI: It's a very simple definition, my friend. It is the earth's attempt to balance out something it cannot balance. And you're talking about the oceans.  The oceans today are a product of hundreds of years of back and forth in the  climate.   
GOULD: If you notice how the acidity levels of the ocean are rising because they can't --   
HANNITY: Let me interrupt this debate.      
HANNITY: Hang on. Hang on a second. I want to ask Joe a question. Joe, Joe, Joe. Joe. Joe, Joe, listen, Joe!       
BASTARDI: The ocean goes up and down, just like --  
HANNITY: Joe.  
GOULD: It doesn't go up.  
HANNITY: Can I ask one question? Tell me about what the political agenda is. First it is the ice age is coming. Then it's global warming. Now as I understand  it the Antarctic is building more ice -- my question is, what is his agenda?  What do people like him --   
BASTARDI: I'll ask a better question.  
HANNITY: You don't like my question. You ask a better question.  
BASTARDI: I like your question. But it's like Dan Bongino said the other night. There is a bull charging over you with all the world's problems. Look at the  squirrel, look at the red ball over there. We have an administration that  apparently told us that YouTube video is responsible for Benghazi. We have a  serious problem not only with ISIS --   
HANNITY: What is his agenda? What is his --  
BASTARDI: I have no idea.  
HANNITY: Is it socialism? Is it redistribution? Is it income inequality? Is it that conservatives are raping and pillaging the planet for profit and they want  to stop us so we can live in tents and ride bicycles?   
BASTARDI: I have no dog in the fight. You know why, because I use the weather and climate to --   
HANNITY: But we're being lied to. Are scientists lying to us?  
BASTARDI: Scientists lied to us. I believe that this is a train that left the station that cannot be pulled back in. And you know something, I'm not going to  --   
HANNITY: Last word. Last word.  
GOULD: Last word on what? In is so much to say about it.      
HANNITY: I think you should educate yourself. Clearly you don't know what it is. But it has to deal with --   
BASTARDI: Why are you bringing up ocean acidity when we're looking at the --  
GOULD: To answer your question, Sean, I don't have a particular agenda, because the fact is, the fact is --   
HANNITY: I got to leave it here.  
BASTARDI: Unbelievable. This is what we have got to deal with.  
HANNITY: Coming up next on HANNITY --      
HILLARY CLINTON,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We came out of the White House not only dead broke, but in debt.    I remember landing under sniper fire.    All my grandparents came over here.    An awful internet video that we had nothing to do with.       
HANNITY: All right, the political insiders put together a quote of the wildest, the debate continues, the wildest lies from Hillary Clinton. We've got the top  seven coming up.    And then later, 2016, Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee is here to  explain what he thinks of the president at the Paris climate conference as we  continue.   
HANNITY: Welcome back to HANNITY. So according to the latest FOX News poll, only 38 percent of voters think that Hillary Clinton is honest and trustworthy. It is  not hard to figure out why Americans feel that way. The political insider put  together a list of what they call Hillary Clinton's, quote, "wildest lies," and  here is a few examples of what they came up with.       
CLINTON: You have no reason to remember, but we came out of the White House not only dead broke, but in debt. We had no money when we got there.    I remember landing under sniper fire. There was supposed to be some kind of a  greeting ceremony at the airport, but instead we just ran with our heads down to  get into the vehicles to get to our base.    All my grandparents, you know, came over here. And my grandfather went to work  in a lace mill in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and worked there until he retired at  65.    The laws and regulations in effect when I was secretary of state allowed me to  use my e-mail for work. That is undisputed.    We have seen rage and violence directed at American embassies over an awful  Internet video that we had nothing to do with.       
HANNITY: Now, the political insider also notes that Hillary Clinton claims she was named after Sir Edmund Hillary and that she tried to join the marines. Only  problem in the Edmund Hillary story, oh, that happened after. Oops. Sorry.    Joining us with reaction, Democratic pollster Doug Schoen, columnist for "The  Washington Times" Monica Crowley, both FOX News contributors. I don't know which  one is my favorite, but one of my favorites is, "and I landed under sniper  fire." We have the video when she actually landed and met this cute little girl  handing her flowers. Doug, where I come from, back where I come from, we call  this a big lie. What do you call it?   
DOUG SCHOEN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I call it the frontrunner for president --      
HANNITY: I call that -- did she lie when she said -- she said, I was sleep deprived. Is that a lie? It sounds like a lie to me.   
SCHOEN: It certainly was not a correct characterization of what happened. She withdrew it. But Sean, I repeat, she's the frontrunner, and, candidly, on the  path to get the nomination and go on to be odds on chance to be elected.   
HANNITY: Monica, there is a part of me that just expects it with the Clintons. But will it have an impact?   
MONICA CROWLEY, COLUMNIST, "WASHINGTON TIMES": Well, Mrs. Clinton has been on the national scene now, Sean, for 25 years. And for the duration she's been a  serial liar. To answer your question, I think it is already baked in the cake  with a lot of voters. They expect the Clintons to lie. They expect them to  dissemble. Remember, she never had an intimate relationship with the truth. So  her honesty and trustworthy numbers have never been good.    But after the most recent scandal, Sean, about the e-mail server, the private  e-mail, and also the Clinton Foundation and all of the corruption and fraud that  has gone on there, her numbers have tanked even further. So when you have these  recent scandals that reinforce an already existing notion that she is not honest  and trustworthy, Doug is right, she may be the frontrunner, but she's starting  from a deficit where people don't trust her.   
HANNITY: Perceptions are also hard to change. There are big lies like the sniper fire, and then there's little lies, being named after Sir Edmund Hillary. Only  problem is that great feat of Sir Edmund Hillary didn't happen until a couple  years after she was born. Why does somebody lie -- William Safire called her a  congenital liar. Why does somebody lie like this?   
SCHOEN: I don't know.  
HANNITY: What's the point? I'm glad you acknowledge she lies, though.  
SCHOEN: I acknowledge that she certainly has exaggerated. But I also --  
HANNITY: Why can't you say the word lie? L-i-e. Or if you're Joe Biden, three letter word, l-i-e-s.       
SCHOEN: Because I've worked for Hillary, I've worked for her husband. And I think she has a lot of leadership traits that are very good.   
HANNITY: Leadership traits -- is lying one of them?  
SCHOEN: She certainly has withdrawn most of those inaccuracies. I'm glad she did.   
CROWLEY: I think to my earlier point, though, voters already assume this is about the Clintons, that they're liars.   
HANNITY: Does that help her get away with it?  
CROWLEY: I think people make excuses for it because it is already assumed.  
HANNITY: Doug knows she's a liar. He just won't say it.  
CROWLEY: Everybody knows she's a liar.  
HANNITY: You're laughing. You know it's true.  
CROWLEY: Republicans, rather than focus on the fact she doesn't tell the truth and her husband doesn't tell the truth, they should focus on the question of  competency.   
HANNITY: I actually think this is part of the narrative. But I think the bigger narrative is how are you going to fix the economy, get people back to work? How  are you going to balance the budget and how are you going to save America from  ISIS? That is the bigger narrative.   
CROWLEY: That gets to what I'm talking about.  
HANNITY: If you're running for president, the truth matters, Doug Schoen.  
SCHOEN: Right, and the trust is she's got a tax plan, she's got a jobs plan.  
HANNITY: And the trust is she's a liar.  
SCHOEN: And she's going to develop a strong --  
HANNITY: A habitual liar.  
SCHOEN: -- plan on ISIS which she'll pass the nomination.  
HANNITY: She lies. Say it.  
SCHOEN: I'm going to tell you she's going to be the next president.  
HANNITY: That's not going to happen.  
SCHOEN: Yes, it is.  
HANNITY: God help us.   Coming up, more reaction to President Obama's laughable remarks at the Paris  climate conference. And 2016 Republican presidential candidate, former governor  Mike Huckabee is next.   
HANNITY: Welcome back to HANNITY. Joining us with more on the Paris climate conference and President Obama's, well, head turning remarks, 2016 Republican  presidential candidate Governor Mike Huckabee. It's almost like an obsession  this president has with apologizing for the country. When you heard his remarks  today and how out of context they were in terms of the progress we have made in  spite of him, what was your reaction?   
MIKE HUCKABEE,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You know, Sean, I sometimes wonder what country did he grow up in, because the one I grew up in seems like such a  different place? When he said that we have contributed to this problem, I think,  what problem?    This is a country that I'll tell you what it contributed to -- the greatest  level of economic prosperity in the history of mankind, the greatest military  strength and force that has kept us safe and kept us free. This is a country  that put coal miners to work and let them build strong livelihoods for their  families. It gave people the opportunity to go to oil fills and drill for those  resources that God gave us under our feet.    This is a country that used that wealth to build hospitals, universities,  schools, and to go out and rescue the butts of people all over this world who  didn't have so much. I don't know why this president seems to be so unhappy with  the great things that America has done not only for its own people in providing  good jobs, but in providing charity and prosperity for people around the world.  When something goes wrong in this world, who the heck shows up? Americans show  up. That's who. And where did they get some of that resource to help people?  From the very energy that this president seems to hate.   
HANNITY: You know, I want to ask you a question about this president as it relates to we're going to give the Iranians $150 billion, the right to spin  centrifuges, the right build ICBMs, the right to partner with missile defense. I  don't understand that decision. Our FBI director, our director of intelligence,  our assistant FBI director, other intelligence people say that ISIS will  infiltrate the refugee community. The president insists on bringing them here.  You said you don't know whether or not he understands America's goodness. Why  would someone make those decisions when smart people are saying don't do this?  How do you explain that? It is inexplicable to me.   
HUCKABEE: It is inexplicable. He thinks he's smarter than anybody else who has ever not only held that office but who has ever I guess been an American.    Sean, look, our energy policy ought to be the total opposite of what Obama  proposes. What I think we should be doing is recognizing we have several hundred  years of energy under our feet -- coal, oil, gas. We have wind, we have solar,  we have every kind of energy. We ought to bankrupt the Russians, the Iranians,  and the Saudis by exploring, exploiting, and exporting our energy to become the  number one exporter of energy not only to challenge the balance of world power,  bring the prices down.    But I'll tell you the practical effect. When gasoline goes down to $1 a gallon  or less, we have just given a single mom the biggest pay increase she's ever  had. When electricity goes down, that 84-year-old widow living in south Arkansas  on a hot summer August day who swelters through the summer because she can't  turn air conditioning on, get that electricity bill so she can turn it on and  put the thermostat at 72 and enjoy a very safe and comfortable summer.   
HANNITY: You have been one guy, maybe along with Ted Cruz. The two of you probably are the two guys that have said, you know what, I'm not going into this  intramural fighting. Any one of us on the stage, I think you said in the last  debate, would be a better president than any of the named Democratic candidates.  What do you think about the reports that if Donald Trump gets the nomination, or  Ted Cruz, and I don't think you're particularly loved by the establishment, to  be honest, governor.   
HUCKABEE: No, I'm not.  
HANNITY: If you get the nomination, they're threatening to pick up their toys and take their money and go home. What is your reaction to that?   
HUCKABEE: Well, if they love their own interests more than they love America, then I guess that is what they'll do. But I find it interesting that as  candidates we're asked to sign a pledge of loyalty to the party so that whoever  gets the nomination, we're to support them. Doesn't the party owe us a pledge of  loyalty so that if one of us gets the nomination the party and all of its  apparatus would be loyal to us? Isn't that the way loyalty is supposed to work?   
HANNITY: You saw the interview with some of these guys over the weekend. Now they're wavering. Now because they're not winning they seem to be thinking about  picking up their toys.   
HUCKABEE: Well, it would be a huge mistake to the detriment of their own future. If they really think Bernie Sanders or Hillary Clinton or Martin O'Malley would  be great for this country and build a strong economy, make it safe, then they  need to be Democrats.    But if you're going to be a Republican, then be one, by gosh. But be a team  player and recognize, as I have said, anyone on that stage, I believe, will lead  more effectively than any of the Democrats, and we will certainly lead very  differently because we will put the national interests of the country first. And  we will build a strong economy that honors work and productivity and doesn't  punish people for being productive.   
HANNITY: Governor, I agree with you. I hope everyone else heeds your advice and warning and admonition. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it.   
HUCKABEE: Thank you.  
HANNITY: Coming u, our "Ask Sean" segment is coming up next, and we have an important "Question of the Day" that we need your help with straight ahead.   
HANNITY: Time for our "Question of the Day." So does it bother you that the president is more concerned about fighting, quote, "climate change" than he is  about fighting Islamic terrorists? Kind of nuts, but we want your opinion. Go to  Facebook or Twitter, let us know what you think.    Now you've been sending in your questions all day. Time for our ask Sean  segment.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hi, Sean. How do we connect conservatives over several different generations?       
HANNITY: That is a great question. How to unite them? With ideas, ideas that will show we can balance our budget, we can create jobs, we can become energy  independent. We have a strong free market alternative to Obamacare. Give parents  choice in education. Where there is no vision, the people perish. We need a  strong vision that is articulated by a passionate conservative and then  hopefully we can turn the country around. Great question. Thank you for sending  it in.    That's all the time we have left tonight. Thanks for being here. We'll see you  back here tomorrow night.   
