  
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: First to the president now linking climate change to terror attacks. I kid you not. Listen for yourself.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I know some have asked why the world would dedicate some of our focus right now to combating climate change,  even as we work to protect our people and go after terrorist networks. The  reason is because this one trend, climate change, affects all trends.       
CAVUTO: All right. So what he`s essentially saying, this warming up of the Earth has made people nastier, has brought on more of these types of attacks, and more  of this dissidence.    Now, if you think about that for a second, remember at a time, let`s say, when I  was young, which is quite a while ago, we had a global freeze fear worry, right?  Remember the big freeze. I showed you these covers of TIME, Newsweek,  Businessweek, et cetera, et cetera.    Now, at that same time, I might stress, when we were talking about the big  freeze, this was all the big rage when I was a younger person, all right, a much  younger person, all right, a kid -- look what was going on. Look what was going  on. Look at all these terror attacks. Go back to Munich. Go back to the Rome  airport attacks.    Go back to multiple attacks all over the world, when the world was cold. It was  cold. Weird.    Not so former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani joins me right now.       
CAVUTO: It is weird, right, to try to link the two. It`s a bit of a stretch.  
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER MAYOR OF NEW YORK: It`s one of the more inexplicable things -- and he`s done a few inexplicable things as president -- has done. He  must be getting some pretty bad advice.       
GIULIANI: I mean, so, I have been studying Islamic religion and Islamic terrorism as a way that people misinterpret the religion or interpret it in the  wrong way for 30, 40 years.       
GIULIANI: And it`s got nothing to do with climate change.      
CAVUTO: That they feel guilty that they were going to this conference, talking about this, in the middle of this terror, and then trying to justify it?   
GIULIANI: Well, you would have to go back to the sixth century if you wanted to attribute it to climate change. I mean, Mohammed...   
CAVUTO: But you`re old enough to go back.  
GIULIANI: Mohammed was attacking villages in the sixth century.  
CAVUTO: Then what do you think he was up to? Let me ask you, because, Mayor -- when you were mayor of New York...       
GIULIANI: Demanding tribute if you didn`t...      
CAVUTO: Fair enough. Fair enough.   When you were mayor of New York and there was planning -- there was going to be  a big global conference, let`s say, climate change. I would doubt you would hold  a big conference on -- but, nevertheless, be whatever the issue is, it was all  planned. There were terror attacks, what have you.    You don`t want to send a message to bad guys that that`s off. Or do you? Or do  you re-confab and then say we`re going to still do this, but we`re going to add  this to it?   
GIULIANI: I think the honest answer is, you do it on a case-by-case basis. Every case I was ever presented with, we went ahead, for example, the 2000 New Year`s  celebration for...   
CAVUTO: Oh, yes, yes, yes. Remember that, Y2K. Everyone was...  
GIULIANI: Well, Y2K and...  
CAVUTO: Terror.  
GIULIANI: ... terror attacks were threatened on Seattle, New York. Some places canceled their celebrations.   
CAVUTO: I remember.  
GIULIANI: We had a big meeting, including with the FBI, and decided to go forward with it. We just doubled, tripled our security.    After September 11, you might remember, I urged people to get back. I was asked,  should we go forward? Should the Yankees come back and play, should the Mets  come back and play? David Letterman talked about it on his show, actually, that  he called me and asked me, is it OK for me to go back on the air?    My general feeling is, you just let life go on as normal.   
CAVUTO: Isn`t that what the president`s doing?  
GIULIANI: And I lived through the London attacks, believe it or not. I was a half-a-block away from the Liverpool station when the first bomb went off in  London.    And I saw how the people of London, the next day, everybody came back to work. I  believe it`s a partial defense to terrorism, resiliency.   
CAVUTO: Well, that`s what the president and the French president are saying about this climate change...       
CAVUTO: So, you might not be a big fan of this debate, but you would still hold it. So where`s the president wrong?   
GIULIANI: Absolutely right.   He -- the president`s wrong in linking -- somehow by fixing climate change, if  he`s going to fix it, he`s going to fix terrorism. And that`s absurd. There`s no  connection between the two things.    It`s like two different things. It`s like saying, you know, I`m going to fix  terrorism by curing cancer.   
CAVUTO: His argument -- and help me with this, Mayor -- is that it`s going to deplete natural resources, dry areas that are going to be -- irrigation, make  desperate areas even more desperate, desperate populations. You say what?   
GIULIANI: The terrorism that we`re dealing with is not emerging from desperation. Many of these people are middle-class or rich people who are  involved in the terror.   
CAVUTO: That`s right.  
GIULIANI: This is an ideologically or religiously based, and I would say certainly a misinterpretation of the religion, and a -- or if you want to call  it a hijacking of the religion.    But the religion has been turned into an ideology. It`s like saying, you know,  communism was caused by climate change. This is -- these are ideas that people  have. And the ideas don`t come from the fact that it`s cold out or warm out,  they`re starving or not starving.    The idea is that there should be a caliphate, that we all should either be  Muslim or we should submit to the Muslim -- we should all convert or we should  pay tribute to the one true God. This is a belief system.    And it`s been an interpretation of both the Koran and the hadith now for 1,400,  1,500 years. Many, many Muslims, the vast majority of Muslims reject it. I was  the person on the evening of September 11 who said, don`t get angry at all  Muslims. And there`s just a...   
CAVUTO: I remember, you and President Bush. I remember that.  
GIULIANI: And I said this. Don`t use group blame. Group blame is what is getting us in this problem. But you can`t ignore the fact that this emerges from certain  texts in the religion that are interpreted in that way.   
CAVUTO: And that it`s not climate-related.  
GIULIANI: Yes.   It has nothing to -- as I recall the Koran and the Hadith, it says nothing about  climate.   
CAVUTO: Right.   Let me switch gears, if you don`t mind, because your name has come up as to  Donald Trump...   
GIULIANI: Correct.  
CAVUTO: ... and these allegations that there were Muslims dancing and happily celebrating the fall of the towers on 9/11. A lot of people say that never  happened. Chris Christie said he doesn`t recall it.    What is the deal?   
GIULIANI: Well, I think the issue here is the number, the thousand people. I have no recollection of thousands.       
GIULIANI: I do have distinct recollection of having reported to me by the police a number of incidents, several.       
CAVUTO: Well, it was certainly going on over the world. I remember that.  
GIULIANI: Let`s say it was a period of time where there were a lot of things going on, so my recollection is not going to be great. But...   
CAVUTO: He was mentioning New Jersey. He remembers New Jersey.  
GIULIANI: OK.   So I will read to you from an article September 14, 2001.   
CAVUTO: Sure.  
GIULIANI: Fred Segal, New York Post. This is back then.  
CAVUTO: OK.  
GIULIANI: "Here in New York, it was easy to get angry listening to Egyptians, Palestinians and the Arabs of nearby Paterson, New Jersey, celebrate as they  received word of the murderous attacks in New York and Washington. But Mayor  Giuliani, who has been tireless and magnificent in this crisis, rightly warned  New Yorkers that it would be wrong to take that anger out on the city`s Arab and  Muslim residents. Attacks on Arab Americans in Paterson or elsewhere are utterly  indefensible."    And over the years now, we get beyond that. Over the years, I have had people  report to me things like that, that there were celebrations. I had a person call  me today and tell me that his friend was in a cab and the Muslim cab driver was  celebrating when he heard about September 11.   
CAVUTO: So, the only mistake that Trump might have made is assigning a number to it. I certainly remember covering it, at the time, that there were celebrations  around the world, particularly in the Middle East.       
GIULIANI: And there were celebrations -- and I can tell you -- reported to me. Now, I didn`t see them.   
CAVUTO: OK. Understood.  
GIULIANI: So, could be wrong. Reported to me by the police, were attacks in Brooklyn, Queens, and in the Bronx.   
CAVUTO: When you say attacks, what do you...  
GIULIANI: Meaning that there were a couple of these incidents where the Muslims were celebrating and people attacked them.    People, in other words, interchanged with them.   
CAVUTO: I see.  
GIULIANI: Because, that evening, after I made that...  
CAVUTO: Because that became like a new security threat for you.  
GIULIANI: After I made that admonition not to take it out on people who were Arab or were Muslim, I assigned to the police commissioner the role of making it  a part of CompStat. Let`s keep track of all the hate incidents.    So, that`s the context in which it came back to me. And some of the attacks were  as a response to celebrations. Some of the attacks were just attacks.       
CAVUTO: Some people who just say you got it completely -- that Trump got it completely wrong, he didn`t. He may have gotten the number wrong or might  have...   
GIULIANI: There certainly were celebrations.  
CAVUTO: So when Chris Christie said that there were not or he didn`t recall it...   
GIULIANI: Well, I think this is getting...  
CAVUTO: I understand.  
GIULIANI: ... getting to be...  
CAVUTO: I`m just trying to get...  
GIULIANI: Were there hundreds and thousands? Were there hundreds and thousands?  
CAVUTO: ... to remember exactly.  
GIULIANI: I never heard about hundreds and thousands anywhere.  
CAVUTO: OK.  
GIULIANI: Did I hear about scattered incidents? The answer is yes.  
CAVUTO: Interesting.   Rudy Giuliani...   
GIULIANI: So, it`s somewhere in the middle or somewhere...  
CAVUTO: Somewhere there.  
GIULIANI: Who knows where it is? But the most important thing is, we can`t create the impression that this is most Muslims. It is not. Most of them,  overwhelming majority, reject this.   
CAVUTO: You got some heat for saying that, as did President Bush soon after that. Remember that?   
GIULIANI: Yes. The vast majority reject it.  
CAVUTO: All right.   Mayor, always good seeing you. Thank you very much, clarifying that.   
GIULIANI: Thanks.  
