  
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: All right, now, in the meantime, in Paris right now, in the middle of all of this, you would naturally think they are like stink on you know  what on following anything having to do with terror, right, that that would be  their full, central focus. But you would be wrong.    For 150 leaders from around the world gathering in Paris, it has nothing to do  with terror, but with climate change.    And to the Climate Depot`s Marc Morano, who says that is what we call awkward  timing.       
CAVUTO: Now, Marc has a film coming out, "The Climate Hustle." And it is making its big debut in France at the Sorbonne, I believe.    Very good for you, Marc. Thank you for coming.   
MARC MORANO, FORMER U.S. SENATORIAL DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS: Thank you.  
CAVUTO: Why did you choose France for the debut?  
MORANO: Well, this is going to be in the middle of all the action, the United Nations climate summit.    This is the biggest summit in at least six years, where the world leaders are  going to try to alter the course of human civilization through the Earth`s  climate. And they`re -- and so we`re going to have a red carpet premiere, Neil,  right...   
CAVUTO: Wow.  
MORANO: ... in the middle of downtown Paris.   And there`s going to be a lot of protesters with nowhere else to go. So, we hope  -- we hope this goes off. But we`re going to have a -- founder of Greenpeace and  a lot of other people showing up live at the red carpet.    And this film is going to turn the tables on the entire global warming movement.  We interviewed people who used to be believers in manmade global warming and  have now grown skeptical, Nobel Prize-winning scientists, U.N. scientists. So,  it`s going to go right at the heart of the Paris climate negotiations.   
CAVUTO: A lot of people are going back and forth as to why to hold these negotiations being right after the Paris attacks.    I can understand giving the benefit of the doubt to the president of France, the  president of the United States to say, well, if we canceled the thing, it would  look bad in the eyes of the terrorists.   
MORANO: Sure.  
CAVUTO: But to continue it without mentioning terrorism, although they did at the outset, it sends a very different message. It almost makes the terrorists  think, are you serious?   
MORANO: Yes, the terrorists might be upset. Hey, why aren`t you paying attention to us?    Well, what they have, even more absurd, is -- I can understand the notion of  going forward no matter what.   
CAVUTO: Right. Right.  
MORANO: We won`t let terrorists deter it.   But we have voices, including CNN and including the administration and others,  who are claiming that global warming will solve terrorism somehow or lessen  terrorism or make -- if we solve global warming and lower CO2 levels, the carbon  dioxide in the atmosphere, the Middle East may turn peaceful, as if the Middle  East used to be a peaceful place until the last 50 years of carbon dioxide  emissions and industrialization.    They are missing the boat there.   
CAVUTO: Yes. By the way, that has only recently become a powder keg, right, the last few centuries not withstanding.   
MORANO: That`s right.  
CAVUTO: But I want to ask you about this other goal that they`re pushing, where the United States is largely footing the bill, this idea to control the  temperature rise across the planet to two degrees Celsius.   
MORANO: Right. Right.  
CAVUTO: That would be about 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, but to forcibly bring it down through these actions, a lot easier said than done. Right?   
MORANO: Yes.   We had one U.K. scientist, Philip Stott, who said there are quite literally  hundreds of factors governing global climate. For the United Nations to pick one  politically selected factor, carbon dioxide, and then try to tweak it at the  margins and then come up with some temperature goal 50, 100 years in into the  future is akin to scientific nonsense.    And you could call it modern day witchcraft, if you will. We know, Neil, from  the Climategate e-mails that this two-degree limit that the United Nations has  been parroting about was -- quote -- "plucked from thin air" -- unquote --  according to U.N. scientist Phil Jones.    That is what was revealed in those e-mails that were released in 2009. So we  know that even U.N. scientists don`t by this two-degree limit. It`s not based on  science. It`s a political goal to get countries to join in, so they can  entertain this idea of a tipping opinion. You must act, or else the climate is  going to get very bad. We can protect you from the climate if you sign onto this  treaty.   
CAVUTO: And I find it interesting, although much of the world is Celsius, that we quote it Celsius, because two degrees, you say, oh, what is the big deal,  when it`s almost four degrees Fahrenheit.   
MORANO: That`s right.  
CAVUTO: But, again, which is the extent of my knowledge on this stuff, what`s the big deal, right?    All right, very good having you again. Good luck with the film. I`m sure the  Oscar nominations await.   
MORANO: That`s right.      
MORANO: Thank you, Neil.  
CAVUTO: Very good seeing you.  
MORANO: Appreciate it.  
CAVUTO: All right.  
