      
REP. RANDY FORBES, VIRGINIA: Well, let me ask you, have we currently contained ISIL?   
GEN. JOSEPH DUNFORD, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF CHAIRMAN: We have not contained ISIL.      
FORBES: Have they been contained at any time since 2010?  
DUNFORD: Tactically, in areas, they have been. Strategically, they have spread since 2010.       
CAVUTO: All right, remind me not to get in an argument with this next guest, Virginia Republican Congressman Randy Forbes.    Obviously, what you were trying to get at is whether ISIS, ISIL, whatever you  want to call these crazies, are contained. And you had an admission, no, no, not  anytime soon. In fact, the president adding to that from France that it could be  years, it could be years.    What do you make of all this, Congressman?   
FORBES: Well, Neil, the frightening thing for us is we had Ambassador Crocker, who testified before the Armed Services Committee just a few weeks ago, and he  said we had them defeated in 2009, and what allowed them to come back on  steroids was the fact that this administration pulled not only all of our  military presence out, but all of our political engagement.    Then you have the president coming out, and he`s talking about them being some  kind of J.V. team and the fact that we have them contained. And as you just  heard, you have the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff coming up today and  saying, we not only haven`t had them contained now, but, since 2010, we haven`t  put the resources that we needed to actually defeat them and contain them.    So we`re very concerned that the president still doesn`t have the right strategy  to defeat ISIL. We think it`s important that he does that.   
CAVUTO: What do you think, Congressman, of the president linking it with climate change, that, in other words, we don`t address these problems, we`re going to  have a lot more of these ISIS-related problems?   
FORBES: Well, I think very few people -- I have had world leaders that have come to my office within the last several weeks, and they tell me the number one  problem on the planet today is not climate change.    They`re worried about terrorism. They`re worried about ISIS. And trying to have  some kind of pact that`s going to be years down the road is not going to deal  with the ISIL threat today. That`s what we need, him back here creating a  strategy that`s going to actually deal with them, not going across the world and  trying to get the American people`s eyes shifted somewhere else.   
CAVUTO: You know, what worried me, to get back to what you said at the outset, Congressman, this notion that we`re sort of acknowledging that ISIS is going to  be a problem for quite a while, and maybe a few years, obviously something that  the new president would have to deal with.    When we have the resources, I would imagine, right now, because depending on the  count, I think in your -- within your committee, there`s been talk maybe 20,000  to 30,000 ISIS members out there. What do you make of that, that they`re  pickable now, and we`re not doing anything now?   
FORBES: Well, they`re only going to be growing, Neil.   And one of the things that we have seen, again, he had advice back in 2010 that  this was going to happen. This isn`t a big surprise. And he just ignored it  then, as he has so many other situations on the globe.    And then what you have is this thing developing to a situation like it is today.  If he continues not to have a strategy to deal with it, can you only imagine  what it`s going to be three years, four years down the road?    He needs to roll up his sleeves, come back home, develop a strategy, and say  we`re going to defeat these guys before they come back and cause more harm, not  just to us, but across the globe?   
CAVUTO: All right, so when Ashton Carter talks about special ops forces, anywhere from a few dozen, maybe a few hundred men and women, that sort of  thing, it`s spoken always in vague terms. Will that be enough?    I have had senators on, John McCain and Lindsey Graham, who say you`re going to  need thousands, thousands. What do you think of that?   
FORBES: Well, you`re going to need at least a different strategy.   Let me just take one of the things that Secretary Carter said. Before our  committee today, he came not only in written form, but verbally said we`re at  war. Well, he had to be corrected by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs sitting  right beside him. He said, we`re not technically at war.    And so this president will come back or the administration and they will take  some strong verbiage and say we`re at war, we have got a strategy, but then we  find out that they`re doing something else on the left hand. And it`s not  creating the kind of strategy we need to deal with this very, very real threat  today that`s going to take a lot of direction from the United States and  leadership.    Their lack of leadership right now, Neil, has made it so that our allies are  very frustrated and our enemies are taking advantage of it across the globe.   
CAVUTO: Congressman, thanks for taking the time. We appreciate it.  
FORBES: Thank you. Thank you, Neil.  
CAVUTO: All right.  
