  
SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I'm Shannon Bream in for Bret Baier who is on assignment tonight in New York. This is a Fox News alert.    The frontrunner for the Democratic presidential nomination, who already has many  trust issues with the American public, is dealing with problems both old and new  tonight. There is word Hillary Clinton opened her secretary of state's office to  a steady stream of potential donors to her campaign. And we're getting a first  look tonight at the latest batch of e-mails from her private servers and  addresses.    Chief White House correspondent Ed Henry is here with details. Good evening --  Ed.   
ED HENRY, FOX NEWS CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Good to see you - - Shannon.   The largest document dump, 700 pages. Most significant dispatch has 328 more  e-mails that have now been deemed classified. That means a grand total of 999  classified e-mails so far despite Clinton declaring in March her server had no  classified information.    Her campaign has noted the documents were not marked classified while her  critics say the secretary should have known it was sensitive information. And  today those critics got even more fodder.       
HENRY: The release of a new batch of Hillary Clinton's e-mails come amid new questions about whether she improperly opened her office as secretary of state  for meetings with labor bosses, corporate campaign donors, plus contributors to  the Clinton Foundation to help pave the way for her second presidential run.   
STEPHEN SPAULDING, COMMON CUASE: This is the kind of situation that you get where money is the coin of the realm. Money buys meetings. It buys returned  phone calls.   
HENRY: The Associated Press, after a year's-long request under the Freedom of Information Act, has finally obtained copies of Clinton's daily calendars.    PepsiCo Inc CEO Indra Nooyi had three meetings with Clinton as the soda company  spent millions lobbying the federal government. And the State Department pitched  the cola giant on funds for a U.S. pavilion at an expo in China. Back in 2008,  Pepsi's Foundation had pledged $7.6 million in grants to two water firms as part  of a program tied to the Clinton Global Initiative.    Another sign of Clinton's intersecting worlds, she met three times with American  Federation of Teachers chief Randi Weingarten whose union has given up to $5  million to the Clinton Foundation. The union chief also sits on the board of a  super PAC backing Clinton and Weingarten endorsed her candidacy in July.    There's no evidence of wrongdoing and a Clinton campaign spokesman noted she has  turned over her e-mail and calendars to be transparent about her time as  secretary while also pledging campaign finance reformer.   
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And we need a Supreme Court that protects the right of every citizen to vote, not the right of every corporation  to buy elections.       
HENRY: Now the new e-mails also show in late 2012 a top Clinton aide consulted with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell and Dr. and Senator Bill Frist about her  concussion. Aidehas e-mailed Clinton his goal was quote, "undermine  claims by Fox contributors John Bolton and Laura Ingraham who had suggested that  she was faking the injury to avoid Benghazi testimony -- Shannon.   
BREAM: And still many e-mails to come through.  
HENRY: Still going through thousands of pages.  
BREAM: Thanks -- Ed.  
HENRY: Good to see you.  
BREAM: Well, the time between Thanksgiving and New Year's may be holiday season to you, but every four years it is endorsement season for presidential  candidates.    Ahead of the first actual voting after the first of the year, the GOP hopefuls  are trying to get as many people as possible to join up with them publicly.    Correspondent Peter Doocy looks at the endorsement scorecard tonight.       
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: A press conference with 100 African-American Pastors at Trump Tower was called off as word emerged they were  not all ready to endorse the Republican frontrunner as advertised.   
VICTOR COUZENS, INSPIRATIONAL BAPTIST CHURCH: I don't know that I will necessarily consider endorsing him. I think that's a little premature right now  for me, but I'm willing to listen to see what he has to say.   
DOOCY: One of the event's organizers Pastor Darrell Scott took the blame for the miscommunication. The meeting still happened and the big endorsement may still  happen, too.   
STEPHEN PARSON, VIRGINIA PASTOR: I talked to a number of black ministers that said they're going to vote for Trump, but they just haven't come out publicly  with it because they're afraid of losing member support.   
DOOCY: The sit-down came as Trump doubled down on his assertion that he watched live as large groups of Muslims in New Jersey celebrated the September 11  terrorist attacks.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Many people saw it in person. I've had hundreds of phone calls to the Trump Organization saying we saw it. There was  dancing in the streets.   
DOOCY: And now Trump's competition across the Hudson is getting a badly needed boost because Chris Christie, who didn't even make the main stage at the last  debate, is the top of the Granite State's influential union leader newspaper,  endorsing him because they think, quote, "Governor Christie is right for these  dangerous times. He has prosecuted terrorists and dealt admirably with major  disasters.    This morning another important endorsement as Republican Congressman Darrell  Issa backed Senator Marco Rubio.   
REP. DARRELL ISSA, CALIFORNIA: He's not afraid to engage on the hottest subjects and that's important.   
DOOCY: Rubio is really raking in Republican support accumulating 18 congressional endorsements compared to just 11 for Senator Ted Cruz.   
SEN. TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If you say things are going great in Washington then we need to keep heading in the same basic direction just a  bit around the edge --   
DOOCY: But only one candidate spent thanksgiving in the Middle East, Dr. Ben Carson. Accused by rivals of being weak on foreign policy, he visited refugee  camps in Jordan and the outsider has a new prescription for Syrians displaced by  ISIS.   
DR. BEN CARSON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I had the opportunity to talk to many of the Syrian refugees and asked them, what is your supreme desire? And it  was pretty uniform. They want to go back home.       
DOOCY: We may be starting to see a new crack in the pledge the party made all candidates sign to support the eventual GOP nominee no matter who it is, because  John Kasich is now refusing to say that he would support his side's nominee if  it's Trump. But an RNC official told me today they are not concerned about  Kasich potentially breaking that pledge -- Shannon.   
BREAM: All right. Peter -- thank you.   President Obama has been invited to deliver the state of the union address to  Congress on Tuesday January 12. The invitation comes from House Speaker Paul  Ryan. We are now awaiting a formal acceptance.    The Obama administration is boosting the amount of ethanol and other renewable  fuels in the U.S. gasoline supply. It's a victory for the ethanol industry over  an unusual alliance of oil companies, environmentalists and some Republican  presidential candidates. The first caucus state, Iowa, produces more ethanol  than any other state.    President Obama says the climate change conference going on right now in Paris  is an act of defiance to terrorism, following the deadly attacks on the French  capital two weeks ago.    Correspondent Kevin Corke is traveling with the President and reports tonight  from Paris.       
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: In the largest ever gathering of world leaders for a summit of its kind, President Obama tried to draw a connection  between countering climate change and the ongoing global war on terror.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: What greater rejection of those who would tear down our world than marshalling our best efforts to save it. We  have come to Paris to show our resolve.   
CORKE: The President, part of a group of 150 world leaders gathered for the U.N. climate summit in Paris, a city still reeling from the devastating terror  attacks two weeks ago that claimed 130 lives.    Shortly after landing here Sunday night, Mr. Obama joined his French  counterpart, President Francois Hollande and the mayor of Paris in honoring the  victims by laying flowers at a makeshift memorial outside the concert hall where  most were killed.    In the wake of the attack, security has been extremely tight, with police  clashing with protesters who took to the streets in defiance of restrictions on  such gatherings. Even as he met with the leaders of India and China whose  countries along with the U.S. are the world's largest producers of green house  gas emissions, the President continued to make the argument that climate change  and terrorism go hand in hand.   
OBAMA: This is a turning point. This is the moment we finally determined we would save our planet.   
CORKE: The thinking goes this way. Severe environmental conditions contribute to a sense of desperation, and that, they say, fuels extremism. There's a military  component as rising seas and severe storms can also alter conflict preparation  and execution.    And there's the financial impact. Climate change means more heat waves, stronger  hurricanes and super storms like Sandy and huge wildfires, all of which cause  U.S. taxpayers billions annually.    The war on terror was among many topics discussed between the President and  Russian President Vladimir Putin. The men met on the sidelines here and talked  about their respective roles in the conflicts in Syria and Ukraine. Meanwhile,  critics slammed the President's insistence that the terror war and climate  change pose similar risks to national security.   
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, that's delusional. It is delusional for President Obama and Hillary Clinton and anyone else to say that  climate change is our near-term, most severe security threat. It is ISIS --  period, followed closely by Iran and perhaps Russia.       
CORKE: Tuesday we expect another very important meeting here at the summit as presidents, Obama and Erdogan get together here to talk not just about the  climate summit they're also going to talk about the war on terror. Keep in mind  Turkey is a key ally in the battle against ISIS to say nothing of their NATO  partnership. And it's also important to point out Shannon they're involved in a  tense stand-off with the Russians following the shoot-down of that Russian  aircraft that strayed into Turkish airspace -- Shannon.   
BREAM: Yes, we'll talk about all of that with the panel coming up. Kevin Corke -- thank you, live from Paris.    So President Obama is holding fast to his linkage between climate change and  terrorism. Senior political analyst Brit Hume is here tonight with some thoughts  on that. Good evening -- Brit.   
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Hi -- Shannon.   Given the ghastly events of 17 days ago in Paris, it makes sense that world  leaders would gather there this week. But as you heard, they're not there to  discuss global terrorism but global temperatures. The incongruities only  underscored by President Obama's assertion that this gathering to discuss a  non-binding climate accord is a quote, "rebuke to the terrorists".    That's right, folks, the administration admits, indeed insists that whatever  agreement emerges from this conference will not bind the U.S. To be sure,  President Obama will doubtless continue his current efforts to drive the coal  industry out of business and to discourage the use of other fossil fuels.    But that would be true with or without any Paris climate accord, which by the  way, is not expected to contain any enforcement mechanism. This will be a relief  to a majority of Americans who, while saying climate change is a serious matter  draw that line at taking some of the principal actions proposed to combat it.    A CBS News poll this month found 60 percent opposed to paying higher taxes on  gasoline and 79 percent opposed to higher taxes on electricity. So amid whatever  hoopla the President and the other leaders can wompup at their Paris  meeting, remember this. Their deal will not be binding, and if it were, it would  have to clear the Senate, which it can't -- Shannon.   
BREAM: Well Brit, this begs a lot of the same questions that we saw with the deal that the President entered into with Iran. There are some similarities.   
HUME: There are. Neither is a treaty and therefore neither is binding on future presidents. In the case of the Iran deal, however, there was money up front.  That is to say, money that was under sanction that would released under that  deal and that Iran would benefit from right away which is one of the reasons so  many people resisted the deal.    In this case, the president would like there to be some money up front for less  developed countries to fight climate change, but that would require an  appropriation by the Congress, and all the Republicans up there say there's no  way he's going to get that. So this deal really is -- he can continue to do  whatever he's doing but it's otherwise not binding.   
BREAM: Yes. And some of those countries say without the money they're not getting --   
HUME: Exactly right.  
BREAM: All right. Brit -- good to see you always. Thank you.  
HUME: Thank you -- Shannon.   Up next, the accused Colorado Springs shooter makes his first appearance in  court. But first, here's what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are  covering tonight.    Fox 32 in Chicago where a suspect is in custody following a threat against the  University Chicago that forced the cancellation of classes today. Authorities  say 21-year-old Javari Dean threatened online to kill 16 white male students or  staff. They believe it was intended as retaliation following last week's video  release of the shooting of Laquan McDonald shot 16 times by a Chicago police  officer.    Fox 4 in Dallas where rain and flooding are blamed for eight deaths in Texas  since Thursday. More than 53,000 homes and businesses remain without electricity  following an ice storm in Oklahoma. Authorities in Kansas say the band of storms  left six dead in that state.    And this is a live look at New York from Fox Five. One of the big stories there  tonight, Amazon releases a promotional video about its proposed drone delivery  service. It says the prime air system will be able to deliver packages weighing  up to five pounds in under 30 minutes. Amazon's trying to get public approval  but faces regulatory hurdles in U.S. and other countries.    That is tonight's live look outside the beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be  right back.   
BREAM: The suspect in Friday's deadly shootings at a Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood clinic made his first court appearance today.    Correspondent Will Carr is live in Colorado Springs to tell us what happened.  Hello -- Will.   
WILL CARR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening -- Shannon. Today is the first time that we've seen Robert Lewis Dear since authorities say that he killed  three people and had shot nine others on Friday at a Planned Parenthood here in  Colorado Springs. From the county jail, he appeared by video in front of the  judge wearing a bulletproof vest. He was planked by the same public defender who  represented James Holmes.    Now there's still no official word on motive, but there are reports that he told  investigators after his arrest "no more baby parts" in apparent reference to the  Planned Parenthood controversies playing out on the national stage.    The judge read Dear his rights and he will appear in court again on December 9  to be formally charged. The district attorney also said that he will decide at a  later date if Dear will face death penalty.    While the suspect appeared in court, a police procession drove past the jail  transporting Officer Garrett Swasey's body. Swasey was shot and killed Friday  along with Army veteran Ke'Arre Stewart and Jennifer Markovsky. All three were  parents -- Shannon.   
BREAM: Will Carr, live in Colorado Springs. Thank you -- Will.   Jury selection got under way today in the first trial in the police custody  death of an African-American last spring. Correspondent Leland Vittert is in  Baltimore tonight and joins us live. Good evening -- Leland.   
LELAND VITTERT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening -- Shannon. Court broke just a few minutes ago with the judge saying tomorrow they will be back at it  again for another panel of potential jurors. Each of the 80 or so called before  the judge today indicated that they had heard not only of The Freddie gray case  but also that very controversial $6.4 million settlement the city of Baltimore  made with Freddie Gray's family.    Officer William Porter charged in this case sat stone-faced and taking notes  inside court today. He is charged with involuntary manslaughter and other  charges that could get him 25 years in prison. He is expected to take the stand  in his own defense and call up to 25 character witnesses. His trial comes first  as prosecutors want him to testify against some of his fellow five officers  charged in this case.    The judge has precluded prosecutors from discussing details surrounding the  arrest of Freddie Gray, but says he will allow jurors to see various videos of  Gray after he was cuffed that might shed light on how he was injured. They will  also take a field trip of sorts to see the actual van Gray rode in before police  took him to the hospital with no fatal injuries.    Now while attention surrounding this trial had been high and obviously security  is tight in light of what this case caused in terms of riots back in April, we  have seen precious few protesters. It seems only a handful willing to brave the  cold November rain that has set upon Baltimore tonight. Back to you.   
BREAM: Leland -- thank you very much.   Bond has set for $1.5 million for the white Chicago police officer charged with  murder in the death of an African-American teenager. Last week the judge said he  wanted to see the video involving Officer Jason Van Dyke and 17-year-old Laquan  McDonald before deciding on bond. The release of that video prompted several  days of protests in Chicago.    Still ahead, trust but verify, how we decide which polls accurately show who is  winning the race for the White House?    First, things just got harder for National Security Agency to access data on  phone communications from both you and the bad guys.   
BREAM: The U.S. embassy in Afghanistan is warning Americans of what it calls credible reports of an imminent attack in Kabul. The State Department says the  threat is not specific to Americans or the embassy. It's declining to reveal the  source of the threat.    The White House is making changes to the visa waiver program in response to the  Paris terror attacks. The program currently allows people from 38 countries to  visit the U.S. For 90 days without obtaining a visa. Homeland security will now  collect more information from those travelers about past visits to certain  countries. The Republicans in the House say they want to overhaul the program by  year's end.    Tonight some of the people charged with protecting your safety are without a  tool that they say helps French officials track down the perpetrators of the  Paris terror attacks.    Chief intelligence correspondent, Catherine Herridge tells us about the end, for  now at least of the NSA's phone data collection program.       
CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: New legislation forced the NSA to end its bulk collection of Americans' phone records. The  post-9/11 program tracked terror suspects using so-called metadata. It captures  who you're calling, the length of conversation but not the content.    After the Paris terror attacks where the suspects used encrypted communications,  the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee told "FOX NEWS SUNDAY" that  limiting the NSA comes with a cost.   
SEN. RICHARD BURR, NORTH CAROLINA: The United States made a real mistake when they eliminated this program where we could search foreign, known  terrorists' telephone numbers to see if they had talked to anybody in the United  States.   
HERRIDGE: The NSA surveillance program became the poster child for government overreach in 2013 after this misleading statement to Congress.   
SEN. RON WYDEN, OREGON: Does the NSA collect any type of data at all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?   
JAMES CLAPPER, DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE: No, sir.  
WYDEN: It does not.  
CLAPPER: Not wittingly.  
HERRIDGE: And documents leaked by former contractor Edward Snowden left no doubt the NSA was collecting on Americans. Under new rules, phone records are still  gathered but now held by the phone company requiring court action for a  government search of the database.    A former intelligence officer says the extra step makes disrupting plots that  much harder.   
MIKE BARRETT, FORMER DEFENSE DEPARTMENT INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: When you can look at the patterns of the support networks, that's where people trip up. If you  don't have their entire history, then you're going to miss the fact that they  were up to suspicious activities, downloading certain types of videos, maybe  looking at how to build bombs.   
HERRIDGE: Long-time NSA opponents say a more targeted program is the right approach, because even in Paris, investigators were struggling to determine  which leads to pursue in a mountain of data.   
WILLIAM BINNEY, FORMER NSA INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: They talk about overload through being done by this mass data collection, and that they call it analysis  paralysis.       
HERRIDGE: Other bulk collection programs remain in place including one called Prism which collects Internet data but has been less controversial because it's  not directly focused on domestic targets. That said, Prism is reported to be a  primary source of raw intelligence for the NSA -- Shannon.   
BREAM: Catherine -- thank you.  
HERRIDGE: YOU'RE WELCOME: Stocks were off today. The Dow lost 79, the S&P 500 was down 10, Nasdaq fell 19.    Picking the winners and losers -- find out which presidential polls you can  trust to tell you who is leading in race for the White House.   
BREAM: All right. If you've ever wondered how we decide which polls to trust when reporting who's leading in the presidential race, tonight we've got your  answers.    My colleague Bret Baier takes us through the process.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have Hillary Clinton in a two-way race up 11 points.  
BAIER: With just over two months for the first voting in the presidential race, most people will tell you they're either tired of or confused by polls. And most  will add their sick of the use of polls by all media outlets looking for a way  to measure the race. We do it, too.    Here's what we do and don't use. At FOX News, we do not use online polls. We use  scientific phone and cellphone-based polls with trusted methodology.   
CHRIS STIREWALT, FOX NEWS DIGITAL POLITICS EDITOR: If you are invited to go onto a poll on line and vote for who you think won a debate or who you think the best  candidate is, if you stumble upon that while you were surfing around the  Internet, that isn't even a poll. That's just how many times can you get people  to click a button? And candidates, and we've seen this in every cycle, try to  manipulate those. They urge their supporters go there and vote.   
CHRIS ANDERSON, ANDERSON ROBBINS RESEARCH: There are a lot of online polls that aren't representative. There is a lot of what we call IVR polls where it's an  automated, recorded voice asking people to push a button. The gold standard is  live interviewers calling people on cellphones and landlines. And there are not  a whole lot of those. Most of the major networks do it. We do it.   
BAIER: While we rely heavily on polls, there hasn't been a great track record when it comes to elections, especially when it comes to recent elections with  conservatives. The most recent example is Kentucky. The gubernatorial race down  there, the major poll is the Bluegrass poll.    Heading in, Democrat Jack Conway had 45 percent to the Republican Matt Bevins'  40 percent. But take a look what happened on Election Day. The real results,  Bevin 53 percent, Conway 44 percent, not even close. And the Bluegrass poll is a  respected poll in Kentucky.   
DARON SHAW, UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS: When you look after the fact and try to ascertain what went wrong, a lot of times you have to crack open the internals.  Were there too many members of a particular group? Was there a partisan skew of  turnout that wasn't captured in the poll?   
STIREWALT: The assumptions about what the electorate is going to look like affects how pollsters are weighting their samples. Who they expect to see turn  out to vote effects what pollsters put in on the front side. And maybe they had  the wrong assumptions.   
BAIER: As you know, we are inundated with polls in the presidential race, really one after the other. Here's the latest Quinnipiac poll one in Iowa. Plus or  minus four percent, the margin there, with Trump in the lead, Cruz essentially  tied in second over Carson in third.    Nationally you can see the ABC-"Washington Post" poll as a slightly bigger lead  for Trump. But take a look at this, the margin of error plus or minus six  percent. The latest FOX News poll had similar results with a slightly bigger  lead for Trump, plus or minus 4.5 percent.    Now, people say, what does this mean as far as how many people are involved in  these surveys, in these polls? Well, in the FOX poll it's 406 GOP primary  voters. Still, again, 4.5 percent margin of error. Some may ask, why does 406  equal a fair cross-section of this race? Well, here's why.   
SHAW: I don't need to drain a bowl of soup or a vat of soup to determine the temperature of the soup. All I need to do is take a spoonful. As long as that  spoonful is representative of the entire pot of soup, I can get a really good  impression of the flavor, the temperature, et cetera.    So what we do in polling, the key, of course, is random selection of  individuals. And the more people you randomly select, the more likely you are to  uncover opinions, attitudes, vote preferences that are held by lots of people.   
STIREWALT: There is some evidence over time that the Republicans are underrepresented in polls. The Republicans, perhaps, are less willing than  Democrats to participate in polls before Election Day. In 2014 cycle, one of the  reasons for the polling debacle in so many cases was there was an assumption  that the electorate would exist on the line somewhere between the 2010 Tea Party  wave and the 2012 reelection of Barack Obama. As it turned out, the pollsters  were wrong. They thought the electorate would look about halfway in between or  maybe even a little closer to 2012. In fact the electorate looked very much like  2010 and resulted in a nine-seat pickup for the Republicans in the Senate.   
BAIER: There are so many polls in the presidential race, they're coming one after another, it helps to look at the average of all recent polls. We use the  Real Clear Politics average here at FOX. It averages all the recent polls in the  presidential race, and there you see it, the breakdown. There are also other  sites that do this as well, an average. There is no margin of error, and this is  simply an average, but it gives you a sense of the big picture because there are  so many different polls and they all have a different cross-section of people  surveyed.   
ANDERSON: The polls are a snap shot of a moment in time. They're not a crystal ball that can predict the future for you. They can give you clues and help you  understand the contours of the landscape, but events inevitably intervene and  change where the public is.   
BAIER: In Washington, Bret Baier, FOX News.      
BREAM: President Obama says the climate change conference in Paris san act is an act of defiance toward terrorists. We'll talk about that with the panel when we  come back.       
BARACK OBAMA,PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Nearly 200 nations have assembled here this week, a declaration that for all the challenges that we  face, the growing threat of climate change could define the contours of this  century more dramatically than any other.   
REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL,TEXAS: I hope while he's talking about climate change in Paris he's also talking about how can the NATO forces and the U.S. coalition  forces and possibly the Russians work to defeat and destroy is.       
BREAM: Let's talk about it with our panel now that the president in Paris at the conference, syndicated columnist George Will, Juan Williams, columnist with "The  Hill," and syndicated columnist Charles Krauthammer. All right, George, I'll  start with you. The president said having this gathering to discuss climate  change there in Paris is an act of defiance against the terrorists. Your take?   
GEORGE WILL, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: The people of ISIS, wherever they are in northern Iraq, are what, saying, oh, we've been rebuked? This is part of the  problem that everything is said to confirm global warming. And global warming is  now said to cause everything else. So it's a theory that can't be refuted, which  means it's no longer a scientific theory.    The amazing thing is that never in history, anywhere ever, has all the powers of  the modern state supplemented by mass education, supplemented by mass media,  supplemented by journalism and entertainment, been all employed for 30 years to  propagandize about this sort of thing, about global warming and all the rest, to  almost no effect. Fewer Americans carpool today to work than carpooled in 1980.  SUVs have never been a larger proportion of the vehicles being sold in this  country. The American people may profess occasionally to be concerned about  global warming, but their behavior tells you that none of this propaganda has  had any effect.   
BREAM: And Juan, when Brit had his commentary earlier in the show, he pointed out the fact that when you ask people about real life impacts on them, would you  pay more for gasoline, would you pay more for electricity, the percentages are  up to 60 and 70 percent of those who oppose that if it would in some way  allegedly counteract climate change. So a lot of people just don't want to get  on board, as George pointed out as well.   
JUAN WILLIAMS, SENIOR EDITOR, "THE HILL": Yes, I think without leadership, without being able to persuade people the importance of the issue, there is  almost no base here. If you look at the poll numbers, it's very low. It's not a  priority for the American people. And I think you see this reflected in  Congress, especially in the Republican majority in Congress. They have no  interest in dealing with this issue, dealing with cap and trade. That issue is  basically stalled in a Republican Congress.    So the president is trying to offer some vision. He's trying to use executive  orders, changing regulations with the EPA, trying to use his stature as the  leader of the free world to rally some kind of international coalition that will  say we will do something, because the Congress is not going to do anything at  the moment.   
BREAM: Well, and you mentioned how much people do or don't care about this. In polling, our most recent FOX News polling on the most important issues facing  the country, and this is from mid-November, terrorism is at the top of the list  firmly with 24 percent. You got to go further down a long ways to find climate  change, and it's three percent, Charles. So why this continued campaign by the  administration and hundreds of leaders around the world gathering in Paris?   
CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: Because this president lives in a world of his idealistic, if you want to be favorable to it, benign about it,  idealistic and deluded undergraduate imaginations. This is about if the League  of Nations and the U.N. and everything in between hadn't happened.    Remember, Obama had a summit in Washington a few years ago to end nuclear  proliferation. He thought it was a great event. I remember the one announcement  of a success was that Canada had given away some extra surplus stuff, as if the  threat of the world is from Canada. He lives in a world where people get  together, reasonable, educated, Harvard law school people from all over the  world, and agree on futuristic designs that mean nothing, like the League of  Nations, like the U.N. But we have learned something since then. He has learned  nothing.    And this global warming is the same thing. Nothing will come of it because it's  not a treaty, it will never get through the Senate. It's not going to be binding  on anybody. And the great announcement he made when he was in China about the  breakthrough with China is that we would radically reduce our emissions by 2025  and China would begin its reductions in 2030, and he thought that was a triumph.  This is wonderful. He said, what greater rejection of those who would tear down  our world than the meeting. How about a serious air campaign over Syria? How  about destroying their oil infrastructure for a start? But that doesn't occur to  him.   
WILLIAMS: I just think it is a defiance. I disagree with you and with George on this. I think the ISIS people want us to be afraid. They don't want world  leaders coming to Paris. I think that's why you see all that security. So in a  sense it is, I'm sure they're not sitting there saying, oh, gosh, President  Obama and President Hollande got together. It's a rebuke of our standards. But  you know what, they defied the fear that would say don't go there.   
BREAM: But do you think that they sit back and think, they've got us? They're right. This climate change has driven us to chop people's heads off?   
WILLIAMS: No, that's not the issue.  
BREAM: No, that's what the administration says is the issue.  
WILLIAMS: In my mind, you can do two things at once. You either do terrorism or you do climate change.   
KRAUTHAMMER: But Obama is the one who connected them, that's the point. It's a rebuke against terrorism. I would agree that terrorism and climate change are  different. But Obama pretends that this so visionary that it actually is a way  to rebuke. The idea that the terrorist attacked Paris because they wanted to  prevent the leaders of the world --   
WILLIAMS: They want to scare us.  
KRAUTHAMMER: -- the rise in the ocean in 100 years is simply absurd.  
WILL: And the idea that people are driven to desperation and hence to terrorism by climate change neglects another competing fact. There are 1 billion people on  this planet who have no electricity. I would think that might make them more  irritable, if you will, than climate change.   
BREAM: Well, Juan, and how do you answer critics who say, as Charles pointed out, that China has been less committal, and India and some others, with very  specific guidelines. We're committing I think to cutting greenhouse gas  emissions by 26 to 28 percent within a very short timeframe where they're saying  they're going to work on it. They're thinking about it. There are critics who  say we have tougher standards here and they don't commit to the regulations  there, manufacturers and companies are going to want to go to places where there  is lax enforcement like China.   
WILLIAMS: I think the bigger issue is we don't see that the Chinese is enforcing the deal that's there right now, even. So the question is about enforcement. You  have got to have it, otherwise it's not real. But the larger point, I think, is  that the United States, which has, of course, historically the coal industry has  been so big here and we ship it overseas, has to show some leadership. Otherwise  these other countries, they're never going to do anything. They have no reason.   
KRAUTHAMMER: But here's Obama showing leadership. The Chinese in the first nine months of the year have been licensing four coal-fired plants a week, and we are  closing ours. So how is that helping the globe?   
BREAM: And there are numerous battles, obviously court battles and others going on, George, to that end about these EPA regulations and just how far the power  can go.   
WILL: It's over climate change that Congress will finally find their footing and say that executive power starts here. They can do that.   
BREAM: All right, we'll see.   Gentlemen, thank you. Up next Bret Baier in New York with an all-star business  panel on the state of the economy.   
BREAM: Welcome back. We are going to New York now where Bret Baier has some special guests.   
BAIER: Thanks, Shannon. So it is cyber Monday which, of course, follows black Friday and small business Saturday. I didn't know that, but we are going to talk  about the state of the U.S. economy tonight. Joining me here from New York, the  FOX Business Network, Maria Bartiromo, Stuart Varney, and Trish Regan. Thanks  for being here. This is an exciting time, holiday sales. We had the National  Retail Federation put out a graph of the projected sales. And they say it's  going to go up 3.7 percent this year, $630 billion. On average over the last 10  years up about 2.5 percent for holiday sales. But for retailers, this is a huge  time, Maria.   
MARIA BARTIROMO, FOX BUSINESS HOST: It is a huge time. This is really dictating the entire year for most retailers. We know that retail sales is about two  thirds of the overall economic story in the U.S. So this is a critical time of  the year for the retail sector and for the overall economy.    Frankly what I have been seeing, Bret, is it has been underwhelming. Of course  online did better than brick and mortar. We would expect that given the  continued acceptance of online shopping. So that's done a little better, things  like Apple, Amazon. But for the most part, most retailers did see  disappointment. The good news is that means in the next couple of weeks we will  probably see even more discounting.   
BAIER: So is this economy soft? Is that a word to use, Stuart?  
STUART VARNEY, FOX BUSINESS HOST: I think it's bumbling along. Consumers have more cash from much lower gas prices, but they are not spending it in the stores  the way they used to.    I think you have got to take count of Obamacare. Enormous deductibles, very high  costs of healthcare, I think that's eating into the disposable cash which is a  lot of consumers have. The turning point in my opinion this year is the turning  not so much away from the retail stores, bricks and mortar, but towards online  shopping. This is the year when online came of age. And Amazon is absolutely  leading the way. It's a real thrust to go shopping online as opposed to standing  in the line at the mall.   
BAIER: Trish?  
TRISH REGAN, FOX BUSINESS HOST: I think there is an excitement, though, for a lot of Americans to stand in the line at the mall. It's a tradition, black  Friday. A lot of people, I'm not in this camp, but a lot of people like to go  shopping on black Friday and be part of that festive holiday cheer which  includes lots of sales.    They are having an opportunity to do it online more so. That's good. But I was  pretty disappointed in the lack of numbers that we saw the National Retail  Federation in terms of Friday's sales. They came in roughly $1 billion dollars  less than expected.    And, you know, I think that that, Bret, really speaks to some of the softness we  are seeing overall in the economy. On the one hand you can see part of it people  don't want to deal with those lines. I think it's telling you something else. I  agree with you, Maria, we are going to see a soft season, and it's because we  are in a very anemic economic growth environment and people aren't feeling  confident and good and they're not out there shopping.   
VARNEY: Maybe it's a cultural thing. Maybe it's my age. I don't know.      
VARNEY: But I have seen door buster sales and I've seen an awful lot of lines and I have tried to park for eternity and I can't do it. Maybe I'm turning away,  like a lot of people, away from the actual standing and buying it.   
BAIER: Look for the amazon. They put out the video of the new drone that is going to be delivering packages around the country. And that's really quite  something. That could be the future of delivery of service.   
BARTIROMO: It looks interesting. It could only hold five pounds, so small packages for sure. But I think overall what you are see something a soft  economy, Bret. You really are. You're seeing people worried about their jobs,  worried about their neighbor's jobs. And as a result they are sitting on cash.    I think Obamacare is the right point to make because small business is getting  crushed. You know the rules. If you have got 50 employees, you are forced to  offer benefits, healthcare benefits. And if you can't afford it or you don't  offer those benefits, you will pay a fine. A lot of small businesses are  choosing, you know what, I will pay the fine because I cannot afford to pay all  of these benefits to employees with just 50 employees.   
BAIER: Talking about jobs, Trish. You have got the look over the past few years in quarters and the unemployment numbers. And obviously they have ticked down,  but so has the number of people who are looking for work, who are not even in  the workforce.   
REGAN: I'll tell you, five percent unemployment just ain't what it used to be, Bret, because back in the day that would have been really good. But five percent  isn't so good anymore. And there is a few things going on. One, you mentioned  basically the number of people that could be working that aren't working. We are  seeing a labor participation rate that's quite weak and it hasn't been this weak  since the 1970s.    The other things is that wages have not been going up. We had a little bit of an  uptick last time around but they are not growing enough, which is crazy when you  think about it because the Fed has been throwing everything it possibly can at  this economy to try to get a little inflation, and we're not really seeing any.  So people aren't making this much money.   
VARNEY: This is the United States of America. This is a vigorous, dynamic capitalist society. But in the last seven years we've never seen a single year  where you have four percent or five percent growth. We have not seen it. In  America that's extremely unusual. If you turn that around, if you did get that  kind of growth, you would see a different attitude on the part of the consumer  and the shopper.    So look in the crystal ball here, Maria, 2016, we're in the middle of a  presidential race, is the economy slowly getting to a place where it's chugging  along a little bit better than it is now?   
BARTIROMO: I think chugging along is a fine phrase for that. That's OK. But that's really not where we should be at this point in the cycle, in the recovery  cycle. The fact is that the manufacturing part of this economy is already in  recession. You have seen a huge collapse in the price of commodities, a huge  collapse in anything really related to trade. Exports are down. And many people  expect 2016 to be an all out recession. So that's going to be a major issue for  the next president to have to deal with.   
BAIER: Maria, Stuart, Trish, thank you as always. Shannon, we'll send it back to you in D.C.   
BREAM: All right, thank you, Bret.   Well, the airways in early voting states are filling up with political ads, and  we have a new one you don't want to miss. That's next.   
BREAM: Finally tonight, as we wish SENATOR Bernie Sanders a quick recovery from a medical procedure he underwent today, we thought you might like to see his  newest ad. And like the rest of his candidacy, it is unique.                   
BREAM: How do you think that is going to play in Iowa? Hey, it got our attention. Thanks for watching SPECIAL REPORT. I'm Shannon Bream. Goodnight from  Washington. ON THE RECORD is up next.   
