  
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX CORRESPONDENT: "FOX News Alert." I'm Adam Housley in Redlands, California, where the investigation into yesterday's shooting and killing of 14  continues not only in three locations here in southern California but really  around the globe.    FOX News has learned this evening some -- several details. First of all, that  investigators now believe the wife in this case may have potentially radicalized  the husband.    They've also learned that they're now looking at a money trail that reaches  outside the country, that may reach to other foreign lands to help pay for some  of the supplies. By some estimates, according to federal authorities, the couple  spent more than $30,000 on bomb-making materials, as well as weapons and also  bullets.    Meantime, we're also hearing now from survivors and those who lost their lives  are those -- relatives of those who lost their lives yesterday. And Commander  Mike Madden from the police department headed a press conference this evening.  He was a first responder. Listen to what he said.       
MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO PD CMDR.: The situation was surreal. It was something that I don't think, again, we prepare for, and they try to -- an  active shooter, we talk about sensory overload. They just try to throw  everything at you to prepare you for dealing with that, what you're seeing, what  you're hearing, what you're smelling. And it was all of that and more.       
HOUSLEY: I'm Adam Housley in Redlands. We'll have updates for you throughout the night. Now back to "Hannity."   
SEAN HANNITY, HOST: And welcome to "Hannity." Tonight, the threat posed by radical Islamists right here in America is real and it is being ignored by your  president, President Obama. Now, while law enforcement is still investigating  yesterday's shooting in San Bernardino, California, we're learning more about  the suspects.    Now, a source briefed on the investigation has now told FOX News that Syed  Farook did have contact with individuals who were previously the subject of FBI  terrorism investigations. They say many of those cases have since been closed.    And Reuters is also reporting the Saudi embassy in Washington is saying that  Farook traveled to Saudi Arabia for nine days in July of 2014. Now, the FBI also  said earlier today that Farook traveled to Pakistan, while adding that his wife  was in the U.S. on a K-1 visa and had a Pakistani passport. Now, keep in mind,  radical Islamic threats to the homeland are now increasing.    Now, we now know that there are investigations into ISIS in all 50 states, and  in an interview taped yesterday, the president told you, the American people,  not to worry about ISIS striking our homeland. Watch this.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: What I try to do is to make sure that people understand the threat is real. We have to be vigilant. But we also  can't panic and we can't respond out of fear.    ISIL is not going to pose an existential threat us to. They are a dangerous  organization, like al Qaeda was, but we have hardened our defenses. Our homeland  has never been more protected by more effective intelligence and law enforcement  professionals at every level than they are now.       
HANNITY: The president once again underestimating this enemy. And just hours before last month's deadly Paris attacks -- remember, that was carried out by  ISIS -- the president made this shocking claim. Watch this.       
OBAMA: From the start, our goal has been first to contain, and we have contained them. They have not gained ground in Iraq. And in Syria, they'll come in,  they'll leave, but you don't see the systematic march by ISIL across the  terrain. What we have not yet been able to do is to completely decapitate their  command and control structures.       
HANNITY: Also, we cannot forget it was back only in 2014 the president said, quote, "The analogy that we use around here sometimes, and I think it's  accurate, that is if a JV team puts on a Lakers uniform, well, that doesn't make  them Kobe Bryant." Well, the JV team has struck again.    Here now with reaction, the author of "Crippled America: How to Make America  Great Again," 2016 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.    Now, we don't know the association here, Mr. Trump, but this -- this is an  important question. How can our president be so wrong so often on so many issues  involving our safety -- the JV team, they are contained, they're not an  existential threat to America? The president won't say "radical jihadists." They  won't say "radical Islam."    How -- what is it about this president? At this point, it almost seems  pathological?   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, perhaps he's incompetent. We have a president that doesn't know what he's doing. I think perhaps you could  actually say hard to believe, but we have somebody that's incompetent. He wasn't  meant for the position, but he's there and we have him for another year, a  little more than a year, if you think. And we're stuck with him, I guess, for a  little while.    And hopefully, the right decision is going tohopefully, that  decision's going to be made, but we'll see. But hopefully, the right decision is  going to be made and we're going to have an amazing leader, a great leader, and  somebody that's going to do the job and do it properly in every respect.    I mean, we're not only talking about ISIS, we're talking about on trade. We're  talking about on border. We're talking about on "Obama care," which is turning  out to be a total catastrophe. It's a disaster, you look at what's happening  with rates. We're talking education.    We're talking about everything, Sean. We're not just talking about ISIS. But  ISIS right now is the hot topic, and the man doesn't have a clue.   
HANNITY: You know, the president -- we now have reports out there all day today, law enforcement officials saying that Syed Farook was, in fact, apparently  radicalized and in touch with -- and being investigated by the FBI, people  investigated for these international terrorism incidents. Even though the cases  may be closed, it makes you wonder, how come they keep missing these things?    And then you have to raise the question about the president, in spite of what  James Clapper is saying and the FBI director is saying and intelligence  officials are saying, bringing in Syrian refugees, when ISIS we know wants to  infiltrate that population.    What is your response to that?   
TRUMP: Well, he doesn't even want to use the term, the proper term to describe these people. And you know, if you're not going to use the term and if you're  not going to define them correctly, you're never going to solve the problem. So  he doesn't use the term. He doesn't really know.    I don't know. You know, somebody told me before they think he has bad  intentions. Let's assume he doesn't have bad intentions. I just don't think he  knows what he's doing. I think it's gotten to a point where it's embarrassing.  He's over there talking about global warming.    Global warming is our biggest problem. They want to blow up our country. They  went to blow up our cities. They want to knock down our buildings, and he's  worried about global warming. So you know, we have somebody that's not in touch.   
HANNITY: Yes. He's talking about the weather, and meanwhile, I was stunned, former CIA director Mike Morell's comments, where he said the very financial  foundation that is making ISIS rich, the oil wells -- that they made a conscious  decision not to cut off their finances because they didn't want to have  environmental damage.    Is dereliction of duty the proper description of that? How do you describe it?   
TRUMP: Well, you know, I've been saying hit the oil for three years. And he actually put people out to say, Oh, that's not a good idea. Some of his generals  said, Oh, that's not a good idea. I've been saying it for years. On your show,  I've been saying it for a long time. I think you'll confirm that. And he's just  been saying, Oh, no, that's not a good idea.    And his generals are -- now, as soon as Paris happens, I mean, they start  hitting the oil. They should have done it two years ago, and you wouldn't have  ISIS, probably, because that's a great source of their wealth.    I said hit the oil, but also said keep the oil. I said hit the oil but keep the  oil. We wouldn't do that. Why would we do a thing like that? It's too  intelligent. So anyway, they're starting to hit the oil, and that'll be good.    You know, the interesting thing is the one that hit the oil first was France.  But I did hear that there were reports that environmentally -- they had big  environmental concerns because by hitting the oil, you'll put things into the  atmosphere and that would be bad for the world.    So I mean, the whole thing is so preposterous, it's hard to believe. But I've  heard that.   
HANNITY: All right...  
TRUMP: I will tell you that part of the reason the wall was never built on our southern border is because they had environmental impact statement problems. And  that's a hard one to believe also   
HANNITY: Then let me -- let's -- let's advance the timeline here. Let's say it's January 2017. Donald Trump is sworn in as president. How do you deal with ISIS?  What are the first moves you make? What are the moves you make to secure the  border? What are the moves you make in terms of people with visas from countries  where maybe they practice sharia law and there's a clash of culture?   
TRUMP: Well, I can talk about that question for about three hours, to be honest with you. That's a big question in terms of there's a lot of things you're going  to do.    We're going to get rid of his executive order allowing people to just pour into  our country unabetted where, our great border patrol -- and they are a great  border patrol. I've spent a lot of time with them. But they're told to stand  down. Don't do anything. People walk right front of them, and they're standing  there. They want to do something. People are pouring into the country.    So you know, we've had some pretty good luck legally on that one in the courts  recently. But he's got executive orders that immediately terminate them.    I'd hit ISIS very, very hard. I'd check the visa situation because I want people  to have to be the right people coming into the country. And I want people coming  in, they have to come in legally...       
HANNITY: Would you go through every visa?      
TRUMP: Well, you have to.  
HANNITY: Let me ask you about that...      
HANNITY: But if you grow up under sharia law, where women can't drive, need a male relative to go out in public, that -- you know, the very restrictive laws  that they live under even into Saudi Arabia, it is the antithesis of our  constitutional republic.    How do you ascertain -- if it's a Syrian refugee, if it's somebody that wants to  come here on a visa, how do with ascertain whether they want to bring their  values that they grew up with them or they want to assimilate and enjoy the new  breath of freedom that they've never enjoyed before? I don't think it's possible  to determine that.   
TRUMP: Well, I mean, they do want to bring their values. And you know what? If we were going over, we'd probably want to bring our values, in all fairness,  Sean. I mean, you know, that's the way it goes. That's the way...   
HANNITY: Well, I believe in American exceptionalism.  
TRUMP: Just look at what happened recently when I made the statement about, you know, dancing on the roofs and the streets of New Jersey. I mean, now it's been  validated. So many people have come out and said that's right, hundreds of  calls. And they have so much information now. And for the most part, people have  been reporting it, although a lot of them haven't reported it the way they  should be. You've been really amazing. You've been so honest about it.    But I've been proven right. Everybody wanted me to apologize. Now I've been  proven right. And you know, it's the way it is.    Look, they have their customs, and that's the way it is. And I'm not even  blaming them for that. But the question is, is this country prepared to do that?  Are we prepared to go? And you know, like, they're talking about the Syrian  refugees coming in.    Sean, who knows who these people are? There's no documentation. There's no proof  whatsoever. I've seen on lots of shows, including yours, where you have really  good police and police types, and they're saying there's absolutely no way of  verifying where these people are coming from.    So it could be the greatest of all Trojan horses. We just don't know. And you  know, you're not talking about big percentages. If five people come in, the  wrong people, we've got ourselves some big problems.   
HANNITY: But how could a president, knowing that his own national director of intelligence, FBI director, assistant FBI director, his general in charge of  strategizing to defeat ISIS, are all saying what you just said and he's not  listening? You know, you were right. Even Dan Rather had reported on it. Pablo  Guzmanof CBS in New York, The Washington Post, the AP, The Star-Ledger had  mentioned it in some capacity, about people celebrating on 9/11.    Now you're under fire today because you're saying we've got to also take out the  families of those abroad that are attacking Americans and have affiliated  themselves with these terror groups.    Do you want to expand on that?   
TRUMP: Well, look at the World Trade Center. The animals that knocked down the World Trade Center, killing thousands and thousands of people and destroying so  many families, permanently destroying so many families, and the destruction and  everything -- forget the money. The money was massive. But look at the people  that were killed. These    people put their wives and whatever, they put their family, but they put their  wives on airplanes a day or two before, all going back except for one to Saudi  Arabia, OK? They're all going back to Saudi Arabia, and they're all going -- in  other words, they're leaving.    Those wives -- I guarantee you, those wives knew everything single thing that  was going to take place. And they probably said to themselves, Let's go home and  watch our husbands knock down the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and almost  wherever the other plane was landing, except we had some very brave passengers  on that plane, frankly -- but wherever that plane was going to land. It ended up  in a field in Pennsylvania. But they went home. They knew exactly.    And I say take them out. Take them out. And I'll tell you the thing -- they  supposedly don't care about their lives. I disagree with that. I they're chicken  and they do care about their lives. But supposedly, they don't care about their  lives. But they do care about their families' lives, OK? That's one thing I am  so certain. They know and they care about their families' lives.    Their family, in particular the wives, know everything that's going on. And I  guarantee you every one of those wives went back home, and they wanted to watch  youon television, the destruction that their husbands were going through.   
HANNITY: That's pretty chilling.  
TRUMP: I say take them out.  
HANNITY: You -- I actually agree with you. You also -- I want to go back to the five people out of the 10,000 Syrian refugees that the president wants to take  in against the advice of many smart, intelligence officials in our government.  If, in fact, five of those people commit acts of terror and kill Americans,  wouldn't that mean the president has blood on his hands?   
TRUMP: Well, look, the president is somebody -- you know, you could say he's a fool in a certain way because everybody is saying don't do it. He's very  arrogant. He's very stubborn. He doesn't want to listen to anybody. And he's so  wrong. And he's so wrong.    And by the way, the 10,000 is not a real number. The 10,000 is going to be much  more. You know, I've been saying 200,000. The 10,000 is a fictitious number. If  you watch this Democrat debate -- and it is actually Democrat debate, not  Democratic debate. Every network's got that one wrong, but that's OK. They put  it Democratic because it sounds better.    But if you watch the Democrat debate, you would see that the number that they  mentioned was 65,000. Now, he's mentioning 10,000. Let me tell you, they're  going to bring hundreds of thousands. But if you look at the debate...       
TRUMP: I believe the number is 65,000 they used in the debate.      
HANNITY: ... three-year period, in terms of refugees, not all from Syria, the number is 255,000, which we've gone over and tried to educate Politifact about,  but they didn't learn.    All right, Donald Trump, stay right there. We'll have more with the presidential  contender when we come back.    And then later tonight, do we need to start spying on mosques with ties to  extremists in America? We'll debate that controversial issue.    Plus tonight...       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We don't yet know what the motives of the shooters are. But what we do know is, is that there are steps we can take  to make Americans safer.       
HANNITY: The obsession of prominent Democrats to always rush and politicize tragedy before we even know anything about it. That and more as "Hannity"  continues.   
HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." And we continue now with the author of "Crippled America: How to Make America great Again," 2016 Republican  presidential candidate Donald Trump.    Mr. Trump, you have dominated throughout the entire summer and now throughout  the entire fall. We're less than two months away from the Iowa caucuses. There's  been a little bit of a shift. Ben Carson has gone down a bit. Rubio and Cruz are  coming up. You were kidding around with Cruz the other day, saying, Well, if he  gets too close, I'm going to have to come after you.    How do you assess the race now? Your numbers seem to be in the high to mid-30s  fairly regularly.   
TRUMP: Well, I'm winning by a lot every poll. I mean, every single poll, I'm winning every state. I'm winning all of the national polls. You see the ones  that just come out. Some big polls are coming out very soon. I think I'll  probably do well there.    I'm having tremendous enthusiasm. I go to these meetings, we have 10,000,  12,000, 15,000 people. We get by far the biggest groups, much bigger than  anybody, including Bernie Sanders. You know, his are tanking. But we have always  had bigger than him.    And it's been an amazing -- it's like a love fest. It's like a movement that's  going on because people are tired of stupid people running our country that it's  horrible what's going on. You know, I listen to you. I listen to others. And all  you have to do is read the papers every day...   
HANNITY: Scary.  
TRUMP: ... and you see...  
HANNITY: America is in decline!      
TRUMP: ... stupidity.  
HANNITY: You said America is in decline...  
TRUMP: You see the stupidity...  
HANNITY: ... and it doesn't need to be.      
HANNITY: Let me ask you -- you have said...  
TRUMP: You're right 100 percent.  
HANNITY: You had said about the next debate, a CNN debate, that you might not go, that you wanted -- the networks are making more money because of the higher  ratings. And you said, Why doesn't CNN take $5 million, give it to the wounded  warriors. Jeff Zucker, I guess the -- the president of the organization, said  no, he's not going to do that.    What's your reaction?   
TRUMP: Well, look, I'd like to do it. And I said that I would certainly be willing to give that a shot to get them to pay. They're making a fortune. And  you know, look, I'm not saying it. I will tell you Variety. If you look at all  of the trade magazines, they're saying that Trump is the one that added.    You know, these things used to be terribly rated, and now they're getting 23 and  24 million people to watch it. It's, like, becoming, you know, the biggest stuff  on television. And I said they should take some the enormous profit and give it  to the wounded warriors and the vets. And I want to do that.    The problem is, if I do it, if I actually strike -- and they'll absolutely fold  100 percent. But if I actually did it and they didn't fold, it would be -- you  know, I'm the front-runner by a lot. I think you'll confirm that -- you know, by  a lot. And you know, I don't want to be watching it and having them say chicken  and Trump was afraid to debate.    I think I won the first debates. The on-line polls of all -- Drudge and -- who's  a great guy, by the way. But Drudge and Time magazine and Slate, everybody said  I won the first debates.    So I don't want to be in a position where I don't do it and they say, Oh, Trump  was chicken, or whatever word they want to use, He didn't want to debate. I just  don't want to take that chance.    So you know, it's up to them. I think they should make a major contribution to  the wounded warriors, personally, but it's up to them. They're making a fortune.  Sean, they used to get, like, $4,000 -- I know for the second debate, $4,000 for  a -- like, a 30-second ad. Now they're getting $250,000.   
HANNITY: It's a lot of money.  
TRUMP: So they're making a fortune. They should make a contribution to the wounded warriors, in my opinion. But I don't want to be accused ever, ever of  being a chicken, right?   
HANNITY: I don't know if that's an adjective that's going to stick you to. Let me ask you -- the Republicans...       
TRUMP: It's never happened before, I can tell you that, so...  
HANNITY: Both The Hill and Forbes reported about a meeting of big donors out at the Bel Air Hotel in California, big Republican donors sitting around a table  saying, Oh, if Donald Trump, the insurgent, gets the nomination, they may not  support you.    And meanwhile, the NRSC sent out a memo telling candidates -- by the way,  warning them that you might win, and by the way, you should adopt some of Donald  Trump's both rhetoric, how he dresses, the way he uses Twitter. So kind of  conflicting.    What do you say to establishment people that would not support you because  you're an insurgent?   
TRUMP: Well, first of all, the one memo sent that was sent out was a great compliment. They were telling long-term politicians that have been - - I've only  been doing this for five months. They've been telling long- term politicians how  to act, and they have to act like Trump and they have to dress like Trump and  they have to talk like Trump.    I mean, it's going to be a little bit hard for them...       
HANNITY: ... themselves!  
TRUMP: ... Twitter 10 million people. You know, I have 10 million people between Facebook and Twitter. It's not going to be so easy for them to copy me. But --  @RealDonaldTrump, by the way.    But the other one was a group of people who don't really know. But they were  sort of -- you know, there's a lot of jealousy. There's a lot of anger going on  because nobody's ever seen anything like this.    One of the really great and big reporters called me up and said, How does it  feel? Because this has never happened before.    But, look, I built a great company. And you saw that in the filings I filed. And  people are really impressed and really amazed at how great the company is. And  that's the kind of thinking that we need in our country.    What we're doing is -- you know, the deals we're making, this crazy deal with  Iran, where we're giving them $150 billion. Sergeant Bergdahl -- we get  Bergdahl, a traitor. They get five killers that they wanted for nine years.    You know, this is the way we deal. We don't know what we're doing. So I think  people see that, and I understand that some of the establishment is upset. But  remember this. In the new FOX poll, as you know better than anybody, I beat  Hillary Clinton and I beat her easily. So that's a very important element. Not  only am I leading, but I also beat Hillary Clinton one on one.   
HANNITY: Right.  
TRUMP: So I think, ultimately, they'll come around. If they don't, that's OK. You know, I'm self-funding my campaign, so I don't need their contributions and  I don't need them telling me what to do because they have a company where they  want to, you know, rip off the country.    So I'm self-funding my own campaign. I'm the only one doing it. And I think  they're not very happy about it because they won't have control. I won't be a  puppet like the other guys are all puppets.   
HANNITY: All right, Mr. Trump, good to see you, as always. Thank you for being with us. Trying times.   
TRUMP: Thank you.  
HANNITY: And we got to turn the country around. There's no doubt about it. Thank you for being here.   
TRUMP: You're right. Thank you very much, Sean.  
HANNITY: And coming up -- liberals already trying to politicize, pretty sickening, the San Bernardino shooting.    But first, is it time for the government to start spying on mosques right here  in America that may have ties to extremists? That's next.   
HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." So residents of Redlands, California, are in shock that two of their neighbors carried out yesterday's deadly mass  shootings. Now, last night, one area worker told a local news station, quote,  "He noticed a half dozen Middle Eastern men in the area in recent weeks but  decided not to report anything since he didn't wish to racially profile those  people."    He went on to say, quote, "Now, we'd see them leave when they were -- where  they're raidingthe apartment." So did political correctness prevent the  atrocity from being stopped? And is it time to start spying on some mosques that  we believe have radical ties?    Joining us now, the author of "The Complete Infidel's Guide to ISIS," Jihad  Watch director Robert Spencer, and from the Ahmadyya Muslim community, Harris  Zafar is with us.    All right, if you go back, Robert, and look at -- remember the kid with the  clock bomb? Remember the MRCthat a man on the street -- and they showed  the device to 50 people, all 50 people thought it was a bomb. The teacher  reported it. Look at all the trouble the teacher got in.    Then you have this case, where people see a lot of suspicious activity. They  don't want to be accused of being -- of racially profiling, and they don't say a  word. Are we at a point that maybe this act could have been stopped if people  would have just spoken up, but fear of political correctness prevented them?   
ROBERT SPENCER, JIHAD WATCH DIRECTOR: There's no doubt about it, Sean. Absolutely. And this goes back years. The Fort Dix jihad plot2007,  and there was a young man who uncovered the plot inadvertently, and he also was  afraid to go to police initially for fear of being called racist.    Groups like the Hamas-linked Council on American Islamic Relations and others  have for years tried to stigmatize any resistance to jihad terror as racism and  bigotry. And we see in this incident now with the neighbor how successful they  have been.    And the whole moral of the story of that clock hoax bomb that the young man  brought to school is, If you see something, say something -- unless it's a  Muslim. Anybody who -- now who knows that -- who realizes what happened in that  case is going to be afraid to go to authorities. They'll know it'll be career  suicide to do so.   
HANNITY: You know, we're now at the point where P.C., Harris, is silencing people and it can have lethal consequences! Now, I know a lot of people -- and I  know your community, by the way, is outspoken against radical Islamists. But  even this president is too cowardly to say the words "radical Islamist" or  "radical jihad" or "radical Islamic terror."    There's a mysterious reluctance and resistance that's almost pathological now,  and I would even argue is putting people in danger. Do you agree with that?   
HARRIS ZAFAR, AHMADYYA MUSLIM COMMUNITY USA: Well, thanks for having me. Ahmadyya Muslim community, our belief is that it does -- this  conversation misses a nuance that it deserves. On the one hand, we do  understand, we do agree that terrorism and violence and murder does violate the  explicit teachings in the Quran. But to your point, on the other hand, it is  unfair to say that Islam or religion has no role to play because groups like  Daesh do use Islam or religion to beautify an otherwise ugly ideology in their  recruitment to show that...       
HANNITY: The reality is the radical Islamists are at war with us. They're at war with Europeans and the western world. There is a clash of cultures here. And  this is something that America has to come to grips with. If you grow up in a  country under sharia law, let's take Saudi Arabia where we think they visited.  OK, women can't drive. Women have to dress a certain way. Women can't go out in  public without a male relative. In other countries, sharia law, women need four  male eyewitnesses to prove rape. If you grow up in that country, how do we  ascertain if somebody is willing to assimilate, they want the breath of freedom  and a new life for themselves and their family, or if they want to bring their  ideas, their culture with them? Because I don't think you can read hearts and  minds or ascertain what people's hearts are, do you?   
ZAFAR: So the way that we -- we're trying to pass this forward ideology is by defining what we call true Islam. And make Muslims explain, do they agree with  the principles of true Islam?   
HANNITY: Your religion has been hijacked. You can't deny your religion is being hijacked.   
ZAFAR: -- which is why we're talking about Muslims and non-Muslims tell us who agrees with the definition of true Islam, that it does champion the empowerment  of women, that it calls for a separation of religion and state.       
HANNITY: Robert, there's a problem. Radical -- Robert, radical Islamists take the words out of the Koran and the Hadith and they use it to justify killing.  "Take neither Christians nor Jews for your friends," "jihad," "infidel," all  those words, they take it literally. They look at the life of Mohammed, a  warrior, his life, his background, and they feel that they ought to replicate  the caliphate, correct?   
ROBERT SPENCER, "THE COMPLETE INFIDEL'S GUIDE TO ISIS" AUTHOR: Absolutely, yes. And it's that lure of the Caliphate that has drawn 30,000 Muslims from around  the world to go to Iraq and Syria to join the Islamic State because they read  the same Koran including at least 250 Muslims from the United States.   
HANNITY: What about -- and this goes to the heart of -- hold on a second. This goes to the heart of the 10,000 refugees that the president wants to bring in  from Syria. Our intelligence director, the director of national intelligence  James Clapper, our FBI director, assistant FBI director, other intelligence  sources, Robert, they say that ISIS will infiltrate the refugee community coming  from Syria. Why would the president of the United States in light of Paris, in  light of San Bernardino, gamble with the lives of the American people?   
SPENCER: It just seems as if he is refusing to acknowledge this problem at all. The Islamic State has already boasted about placing jihadis among the refugees.  They have warned their people -- they have instructed their people, I should  say, not to appear overtly Islamic, to appear moderate and not to carry around a  Koran, not to go to mosque, just to wait until they're called upon to commit  mass murder in the name of Islam. And so there is absolutely no way to vet among  these refugees. And of course the Obama administration can't vet them anyway  because they won't even admit there is a jihad. How are they going to determine  who the jihadis are among the refugees?   
HANNITY: Well said.  
SPENCER: It's absolutely absurd.  
HANNITY: Thank you both for being with us. We appreciate your time.   And coming up next on this busy news night right here on HANNITY.       
BARACK OBAMA,PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We don't yet know what the motives of the shooters are. But what we do know is that there are steps we can  take to make Americans safer.       
HANNITY: It's inexplicable. The president and the liberal cohorts rushing to politicize yesterday's tragedy before we even know what was involved. So are  Democrats going to use this atrocity and try to restrict your Second Amendment  rights? We'll debate that next as HANNITY continues.   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: FOX News alert. I'm Adam Houlsey in Redlands, California, where the investigation continues into yesterday's attack  in nearby San Bernardino which killed 14, injured 21 others. We know of at least  three investigative sites here, including the one here in Redlands which  continues.    This is where this couple lived. And FBI is still here going through the  apartment. They finished going throughout car earlier today and the garage out  back. They have found a plethora of evidence that leads them to believe a number  of things, that, one, this couple may have been heading to a second attack or  planned a second attack. The first attack yesterday was done because they knew  it would be successful because it was a soft target.    They're also looking at the money trail. They don't believe the couple could  have afforded what they think is more than $30,000 in supplies that is produced  the explosive pipe-bombs as well as the ammunition and weapons. They say that  money trail could potentially lead to outside the country.    Now, we do know that country of Saudi Arabia said both the couple was there last  year for nine days the investigators are telling us. They're now going on a  theory that possibly she radicalized him and she may have been the one who had  the training.    A lot of information as this investigation continues here not only here locally  but also across the state, across the country, and around the globe as they look  for possible terror connections. We'll keep you updated throughout the night as  well as tomorrow on this case. In the meantime, I'm Adam Housley. Now back to  HANNITY.   
HANNITY: And welcome back to HANNITY. So as the city of San Bernardino continues to come to grips with the horrific shooting yesterday that took the lives of 14  innocent people and injured 21 more, well, you have some people on the left  politicizing this tragedy. Now yesterday President Obama just after hearing the  news, this is what he does.       
OBAMA: We have a pattern now of mass shootings in this country that has no parallel anywhere else in the world. And there's some steps we can take not to  eliminate every one of these mass shootings, but to improve the odds that they  don't happen as frequently.    We don't yet know what the motives of the shooters are. But what we do know is  there are steps we can take to make Americans safer.       
HANNITY: The president is not the only Democrat who uses every opportunity that he can to push through a radical gun control agenda. Here's what Hillary Clinton  said yesterday before the world learned about the San Bernardino shooting.       
HILLARY CLINTON,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And 90 Americans a day die from gun violence, homicide, suicide, tragic, avoidable accidents, 33,000 Americans a  year die. It is time for us to say we're going to have comprehensive background  checks. We're going to close the gun show loophole. We're going to close the  online loopholes, close the Charleston loophole, and the immunity for the gun  makers and sellers.       
HANNITY: Joining us now with reaction, the editor in chief of Lifezette.com Laura Ingraham and the executive director of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence  Josh Horwitz. Josh, let me ask a simple question. I've been a pistol marksman  since I'm 11-years-old. I have license carry permits in Rhode Island, Alabama,  Georgia, and New York. If there, God forbid, is ever a moment in your life where  a crazy radical Islamist comes in to shoot you, you would want me in the room  with you armed with my weapon?   
JOSH HORWITZ, COALITION TO STOP GUN VIOLENCE: Well, I don't know your level of training.   
HANNITY: I've been trained since I'm 11. I'm a marksman, sir.  
HORWITZ: If you're trained like law enforcement and you train regularly and you know what you're doing you can understand the situation - -   
HANNITY: But you'd like me there, wouldn't you?  
HORWITZ: But let me finish my point. There actually was a concealed carry person on scene last time and it was too confusing for them. So I think we need to  divorce this issue of whether we need --   
HANNITY: No I don't think so, because it's a reality.      
HANNITY: It's a reality lives can be saved. In other words, when they were reloading the clips and shooting 75 bullets, Laura, at innocent people, that  might have been a moment where they could have been taken down. They weren't  wearing bullet-proof vests, Laura Ingraham.   
LAURA INGRAHAM, EDITOR IN CHIEF, LIFEZETTE.COM: First of all, Sean, I'd like to be in the room with you. I'm just going to be on the record saying. Whether you  train every day, whether you train six months ago, or whether you're a  law-abiding citizen with a pragmatic prudence sense of self-defense.    We have a lot of Americans today who are watching the show who are living in  fear. They're in high crime areas where it's very difficult to purchase a gun.  It's very difficult for many single women to own firearms in in many  metropolitan areas.    The poorest of the people, the most vulnerable Americans are the ones who suffer  most from this reflexive attitude that guns are the problem. I reject any  opportunity that the left is taking to blame law abiding gun owners or the  Second Amendment folks through what happened yesterday. It was a horrific act by  criminal people of an Islamic background. We'll find out what that had to do  with all of this. But, you know, shifting this to some gun control argument is  predictable and, frankly, not helpful at all. I'm sure Josh is a great guy. But  Josh, we're leaving people vulnerable out there, and gun control will do nothing  to save the lives of innocent people.   
HORWITZ: The bigger question is you talked about, you know, I listened to the last section. You already talked about how the folks are probable terrorists. I  don't know that, but let's say they are. Why are we making it so easy for them  to get firearms? There are two questions here. You have the self-defense  question. I get that. But the bigger question is we have people on the terrorist  watch list today who are able to buy firearms. How can we allow terrorists to  get firearms, especially assault weapons in this country? We need to do a far  better job.    And so we need to -- these are two different questions. I understand the  self-defense question. But we are allowing people who are dangerous, where there  are people that have violent histories of crimes or people on the terrorist  watch list, why are we allowing them to do that.   
INGRAHAM: You must know something I don't know. I call this the no- fly law, the no-fly list or the terrorism list. If people cared about all these issues, if,  Josh, if you cared a lot about this criminality in the United States, I'm sure  you'd be leading the charge to shut down the border, to close up all this  outrageous migration of criminals in our country that have been let loose on the  streets of the United States today. I don't hear any of the anti-gun people out  there talking about the 179,000 criminal alien who are now on our streets. So  forgive me if I don't think there is a lot of credibility on this issue.    We have a criminal problem in the United States. We do not have a gun owner  problem in the United States. These were criminals. They had pressure cooker it  looks like technology bombs. You don't have to go to a gun store to get a  pressure cooker the last time I checked.   
HANNITY: We have to leave it there. Laura, well done. Thank you. Appreciate it.   And coming up next tonight here on HANNITY.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gunshots! Those are gun shots! Those are gun shots!      
HANNITY: When we come back, more reaction to yesterday's shooting in San Bernardino. Plus we'll play you video that proves why cops lives matter. We'll  show you bravery. If you haven't seen it, it will amaze you and inspire you,  straight ahead.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Those are gunshots. Those are gunshots. Those are gunshots. Oh, there is gunfire, right now. Oh, damn. They got him right there.       
HANNITY: Unbelievable video taken yesterday during the suspect shootout with police. Now another video has emerged showing police evacuating survivors at the  Inland Regional Center. And one officer telling the group, "I'll take the bullet  before you do." Want to know where blue lives matter? Watch this.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sir? Sir, keep your hands where I can see them.   Thank you, thank you. I'll take the bullet, relax, I'll take the bullet before  you, that is for damn sure. Just be cool, OK?       
HANNITY: "I'll take the bullet, relax, "I'll take the bullet before you, that's for damn sure." Here with reaction, former NYPD detective, our friend Bo Dietl,  and our other friend who we don't get to see that often, the great attorney  general of the great state of Florida Pam Bondi. Doesn't that prove a lot, that  video? For all the talk about you hear one case of one officer, all the good  officers, I'll take a bullet before you, that's for damn sure.   
PAMELA BONDI, FLORIDA ATTORNEY GENERAL: Sean, I've been to many police officers' funerals, some good friends of mine. And they would do it again, their family  members say. And every day these great men and women go out to protect and take  care of us. And I tell everyone if you see a police officer, you thank them,  because they are out there making it safe for us to go to church, for our kids  to go to school, for us to go to work.   
HANNITY: I've got to tell you, it's unbelievable. I want to ask you a different question. I want to put up "The New York Daily News" headline today, because  this is so outrageous. "God isn't fixing this." And they put Republicans tweets  out that said they're in our thoughts and prayers. "God isn't fixing this,"  making this about gun control, whereas the other New York tabloid, "The New York  Post" actually put up Muslim killers and terror, there is a couple that  slaughters 14 in California. You're convinced now this is terror, as I am.   
BO DIETL, FORMER NYPD DETECTIVE: I call it. Last night I questioned it. I saw the evidence come out with the 12 bombs and how they were making them. I texted  you this morning and said, you know what, I'm 100 percent.   
HANNITY: It was 6:00 a.m.  
DIETL: This was a Muslim terrorist attack. You know what, OK, take the firearms away. What are you going to do with the 12 damn bombs? They are going to kill  people. What are you going to do, stop selling stuff to make bombs next? This is  the most-ridiculous thing. And all these Democrats that are jumping on the  bandwagon, we have got 14 dead people there and another 20 some people that are  not going home for Christmas, and this really upsets me.   
HANNITY: Let me ask Pam this question. You're talking about 15 pipe bombs, you're talking about 5,000 plus rounds of ammunition, you're talking about the  equipment to make IEDs. You have the Saudi connection, the Pakistani passport,  the father saying he's a devout Muslim, and the report that came out that in  fact he had been radicalized, what is an intelligent person supposed to  conclude?   
BONDI: Everything points to terrorism. Of course it points to terrorism. The investigation has to conclude, Bo know that. But everything we're hearing and  seeing now, that is what it's demonstrating. You know, Sean, guns, they're  politicizing this, just like you say, and shame on them for criticizing us for  wanting to pray for the victim. They put us --   
HANNITY: They've been attacking you in Florida because of your support for the Second Amendment.   
BONDI: I get attacked all the time because I believe in the Second Amendment.  
HANNITY: Last word, Bo?  
DIETL: You have got this Valerie Jarrett that's running this country in the Oval Office over there. I want to tell you right now --   
HANNITY: Valerie Jarrett.  
DIETL: That one, too. I really don't care what her name is. But this is coming down from the White House, and they're putting the brakes on it. We have to get  the FBI director to step up and say this was an act of terrorism.   
HANNITY: All right, thank you both for being with us. Pam, good to see you.  
BONDI: Sean, you too.  
HANNITY: And you too, Bo.   Coming up, when we come back we need your help. Our "Question of the Day" is  next.   
HANNITY: And time for our "Question of the Day." Should we be spying on mosques that we expect or think have extremist ties? Just go to Facebook.com/SeanHannity  @SeanHannity on Twitter and let us know what you think.    Unfortunately that is all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for  being with us. We'll see you back here tomorrow night.   
