  
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: This is a Fox News alert. I'm Bret Baier in Washington.    Thousands of bullets, a dozen pipe bombs, some attached to remote- controlled  cars, a trip to the Middle East and social media communication with known  Islamic jihadists who the FBI was tracking at one time.    New details are coming to light as President Obama again used yesterday's  horrific mass shooting to push his gun control agenda today. But even the  President is acknowledging that the massacre of 14 people in San Bernardino,  California Wednesday may be an act of terrorism.    We have Fox team coverage tonight. Carl Cameron in Washington, with what  Republican presidential candidates are saying; Peter Doocy at the White House  where gun control, not terrorism appears to be the focus so far; But we begin  with senior correspondent Adam Housley live in San Bernardino again tonight.  Hello -- Adam.   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Hello, Bret, we've learned actually from investigators that they believe that Syed may have contacted jihadi-type  organizations through social media. They do not know the extent of that contact  at this hour but they do believe that contact did happen and they are  investigating the depth of that contact.    Meantime it comes as the government of Saudi Arabia does admit that he and his  wife visited the country last year for nine days but they will not say that his  wife was a Saudi citizen.       
JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE CHIEF: We still don't have the motive.  
HOUSLEY: More than 24 hours after Wednesday's shooting rampage that left 14 dead and 21 injured, there are still more questions than answers.   
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI: This is not your average investigation, we have multiple scenes, we have many victims and it will take time.   
HOUSLEY: Witnesses say Syed Farook abruptly left a holiday party for the county health employees at the Inland Regional Center. And when he returned, the  28-year-old county restaurant inspector and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, were  dressed and prepared for battle with legally-purchased weapons.   
BURGUAN: The suspects when they entered fired somewhere between 65 and 75 rounds from their rifles. However on their person, on their body and in the vehicle  they had over 1,400 223-caliber rounds and they had over 200 9-millimeter rounds  on their persons as well.    There appears to be a degree of planning that went into this. Nobody just gets  upset at a party, goes home and puts together that kind of an elaborate scheme  or plan to come back and do that.   
HOUSLEY: Some of that planning apparently beginning at a home in Redlands that the two had been renting for the past six months.   
BURGUAN: The search that took place revealed that there were 12 pipe bomb devices found in that house or in the garage of that house. There were also  hundreds of tools many of which could be used to construct IEDs or pipe bombs.   
BOWDICH: If you look at the amount of obvious preplanning that went in, the amount of armaments that he had, the weapons and the ammunition there was  obviously a mission here.   
HOUSLEY: The FBI also analyzing digital media taken from the home along with how the two had met and where they traveled. Malik who came to the U.S. from  Pakistan in 2014, was here on a K1 visa -- that requires marriage within 90 days  of arriving.   
BOWDICH: We know there was some international travel. They both came into the U.S. in July of 2014. They have since had a baby together.   
HOUSLEY: The FBI has yet to rule whether or not this is terrorism.  
BOWDICH: It would be irresponsible and premature of me to call this terrorism. The FBI defines terrorism very specifically. And we are still -- that is the big  question for us is what is the motivation for this.       
HOUSLEY: Today, we're also learning, Bret, the victims' names, of course, as well as those injured. Loma Linda Medical Center saying they still have two  patients in critical condition and the two officers injured are said to be in  stable condition -- Bret.   
BAIER: Adam Housley live in San Bernardino. Adam -- thank you.   The suspects had not even been confronted by authorities in that shoot-out nor  had the victims been identified before President Obama linked the shootings to  America's gun laws with no mention of possible Islamic terrorism. Today he  concentrated on the former and only hinted at the latter.    Correspondent Peter Doocy is at the White House tonight.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Thank you very much, everybody.  
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Today after huddling with his national security team, President Obama announced it's unclear why a couple in California  carried out a coordinated attack.   
OBAMA: It is possible that this was terrorist-related. But we don't know. It's also possible that this was workplace-related.   
DOOCY: Despite that mystery, the President said he knows how to stop future attacks similar to San Bernardino.   
OBAMA: Common sense gun safety laws. Stronger background checks.  
DOOCY: Does the President really think that common sense gun laws would deter terrorists now that he has admitted these two may have been terrorists?   
JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Yes.  
DOOCY: So the President thinks when there are potentially two terrorists sitting around planning a mass murder, they may call it off because President Obama has  put in place common-sense gun laws?   
EARNEST: We're still learning of the precise motives of the individuals who carried out this heinous act of violence yesterday. One thing we do know -- is  that the four firearms that they were wielding were legally purchased under the  laws that are in place now.   
DOOCY: But Republican lawmakers aren't so sure the President is seeing the whole picture.   
SEN. PAT TOOMEY, PENNSYLVANIA: I've supported background checks for a long time. I continue to support them. But the problem that we witnessed yesterday  appears to be a domestic terrorist and that's something we really ought to be  focused on.   
DOOCY: The President is also trying to make a broader point now about sky-high shooting stats.   
OBAMA: We have a pattern now of mass shootings in this country that has no parallel anywhere else in the world.   
DOOCY: But when you define mass shooting, it's causing four or more deaths in public and subtract gang or terrorist-related incidents, mass shooting rates in  the U.S. are about the same as Europe according to the Crime Prevention Research  Center, so the President's critics are expressing a familiar frustration.   
JOHN BOLTON, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: But his instinct is always political. It's not presidential.       
DOOCY: Today the White House also insisted they've been working with Muslim leaders to try and discourage vulnerable young Americans from becoming  radicalized. But when asked exactly who is involved in that effort, officials  here couldn't name anybody -- Bret.   
BAIER: Peter Doocy live on the north lawn. Peter -- thank you.   While the President and Democrats are pushing the gun angle, Republican  presidential hopefuls are talking terrorism.    Chief political correspondent Carl Cameron reports from a major conference of  candidates and donors.       
CARL CAMERON, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: The Republican Jewish Coalition Presidential Forum drew all the GOP candidates. They promised to  defend Israel, destroy Islamist terrorism and decried the San Bernardino  attacks.   
SEN. TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This horrific murder underscores that we're at a time of war.   
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We need to come to grips with the idea that we are in the midst of the next world war.   
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, if you think that shooting in California is about gun control, then you don't understand what's  going on in the world.   
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck and sounds like a duck, maybe it's a duck.   
CAMERON: Donald Trump had no doubts about it.  
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Radical Islamic terrorism - - and I'll tell you what, we have a president that refuses to use the term. He refuses to  say it. There's something going on with him that we don't know about.   
CAMERON: Marco Rubio in promising to defend Israel took a shot at Trump for telling the Associated Press he questions Israel's desire for peace.   
SEN. MARCO RUBIO, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Some in our own party in the news today have actually questioned Israel's commitment to peace. Some in our  own party have actually called for more sacrifice from the Israeli people. They  are dead wrong and they don't understand the enduring bond between Israel and  America.   
CAMERON: Trump got booed for refusing to say Jerusalem should be Israel's capital as part of a Middle East peace deal and said while he would like to  broker peace between the Israelis and Palestinians, he's not sure either side is  ready.   
TRUMP: I don't know that Israel has the commitment to make it. And I don't know that the other side has the commitment to make it.   
CAMERON: Where Trump was himself noncommittal, Mike Huckabee, an ordained Baptist minister was not.   
MICKE HUCKABEE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The United States needs to finally make the definitive statement of who it's taking sides with and move its embassy  to Jerusalem and once and for all declare we know who our peace partner in the  Middle East is and it is Israel.   
CAMERON: Dr. Ben Carson hedged on Jerusalem as the Israeli capital and just back from a trip to Jordan to boost his limited foreign policy experience read a  30-minute prepared speech.   
DR. BEN CARSON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I view Israel as both our canary in the coal mine, meaning that as Israel goes, so goes western civilization; but  also as the tip of the spear in this clash.       
CAMERON: The San Bernardino investigation may take months. But it's clear the entire Republican field has all but concluded that jihadism in the American  homeland can no longer be considered theoretical -- Bret.   
BAIER: Carl -- thank you.   Jeb Bush was our guest in "Center Seat". We'll show that a little later. If you  have questions, drop us a line at Facebook/BretBaierSR or on Twitter @BretBaier  use the #SpecialReport.    Hillary Clinton meantime took an uncomfortable but probably anticipated question  today during an event in New Hampshire.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You recently came out to say that all rape victims should be believed. But would you say that about Juanita Broderick, Kathleen Willey  and/or Paula Jones? Should we believe them as well?   
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, I would say that everybody should be believed at first until they are disbelieved based on evidence.       
BAIER: The women mentioned have in the past accused Clinton's husband of sexual harassment, assault or rape.    Up next an historic decision, the Pentagon officially gives the green light to  women in combat.    First, here's what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are covering  tonight. Fox 11 in Charleston, West Virginia where a jury has found former  Massey Energy CEO Don Blankenship guilty of conspiracy connected to a deadly  coal mine explosion. 29 men died in the blast at the Upper Big Branch Mine in  2010.    Fox 5 in New York as five Fifth Graders in northern New Jersey are suspended  after allegedly plotting to attack a high school during a field trip. Police say  the kids brought a non-explosive device filled with vinegar and cinnamon to  school. Teachers and administrators found written plans on how the attack would  occur. No criminal charges have been filed so far.    And this is a live look at Cape Canaveral, Florida tonight. One of the big  stories for Fox 35 in Orlando: a weather-related delay in the scheduled launch  of a rocket carrying gear to the International Space Station. The payload  includes 7,000 pounds of supplies and 250 research projects.    That's tonight's live look outside the Beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be  right back.   
BAIER: A big shift in the U.S. Military. Women are now eligible for all front-line combat positions including elite special operations units. The  Pentagon ended combat exclusion this afternoon.    National security correspondent Jennifer Griffin has reaction to this historic  decision tonight from the Pentagon.       
JENNIFER GRIFFIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Standing alone at the Pentagon podium, Defense Secretary Ash Carter announced his decision to open  all front-line combat positions to women.   
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. DEFENSE SECURITY: There will be no exceptions. They'll be allowed to drive tanks, fire mortars and lead infantry soldiers into combat.  They'll be able to serve as Army Ranger and Green Berets, Navy Seals, Marine  Corps Infantry, Air Force Parajumpers and everything else that was previously  open only to men.   
GRIFFIN: The services have 30 days to make the historic shift. Female service members who sued the Defense Department for this right welcomed the decision.   
COL. ELLEN HARING, U.S. ARMY: We cheered, we clapped, some of us cried a little bit and I was one of them because it's been a long time coming for us.   
GRIFFIN: Notably absent today was chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Joe Dunford who as Marine commandant, oversaw a study that found male-only infantry  units shot more accurately, could carry more weight and had lower injury rates.    Congressman Duncan Hunter is a marine who served in Iraq and Afghanistan.   
REP. DUNCAN HUNTER, CALIFORNIA: The marine corps has looked at this extensively and they're the only service that has done so. And they actually  came away with conclusions that it makes the fighting unit less effective.   
GRIFFIN: Former special operations commanders have expressed skepticism.  
ADM. ERIC OLSON, U.S. NAVY: I think that we need to ask ourselves as a society if we're willing to put women in front-line combat units to take the  first bullet on target or they're willing to cause every 18-year-old girl to  sign up for selective service. Are we willing to cause women to serve in  infantry units against their will as we do men?   
GRIFFIN: 30 percent of all infantry units are made up of men who didn't volunteer. Today Carter was asked if women could be forced to serve on the front  lines.   
CARTER: Women will be subject to the same standards and rules that men will.      
GRIFFIN: Three women recently made it through Ranger school for the first time. Now they're eligible for the Ranger regiment and could be the first female  special operators sent to fight ISIS -- Bret.   
BAIER: Jennifer Griffin, live at the Pentagon. Jennifer -- thank you.   British jets struck ISIS oilfields in eastern Syria today just hours after the  British parliament gave the go-ahead for participation. Germany is preparing to  send reconnaissance aircraft to the region.    Russian President Vladimir Putin is calling for a powerful fist to fight  terrorism following yesterday's release of a purported ISIS video showing the  beheading of a Russian-speaking man. Putin is also repeating his charge that  Turkey's president is personally profiting from oil trade with ISIS. Turkey's  President Erdogan denies that.    As bad as things have appeared recently for the U.S. Secret Service, they're  actually worse, a new congressional report paints a picture of an agency  suffering from low morale, high attrition, a lack of funds and a lack of  leadership.    Chief legal correspondent Shannon Bream has the specifics tonight.       
REP. JASON CHAFFETZ, UTAH: The Secret Service is an agency in crisis.  
SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS CHIEF LEGAL CORRESPONDENT: The Secret Service is an agency in crisis. That's bottom line of a more than 400-page bipartisan report  from the House Oversight Committee. It details incidents involving violent  individuals, those with criminal pasts and impostors getting to within feet of  the President. Scandals involving prostitutes and agents on overseas assignment,  as well as accusations that intoxicated agents interfered with a crime scene  just outside White House grounds.   
CHAFFETZ: Unfortunately we've kind of peeled it back and looked under the hood, the more I've seen, the more I worry about the President's -- the President's  own safety and security. I really do.   
BREAM: Congressman Elijah Cummings, the committee's top Democrat says he agrees there's a lot of work to be done, but says he's seen improvement under Director  Joe Clancy's leadership.   
REP. ELIJAH CUMMINGS, MARYLAND: I believe that they are capable. I think they're at high alert. I think they have learned from the things that have  happened in the past.   
BREAM: The report cites rampant mismanagement and critically low morale. Among the scores of recommendations are better transparency about how misconduct is  handled and the suggestion that the next time the President chooses a director,  he look outside the agency.    White House press secretary Josh Earnest said today Clancy retains the  President's confidence.   
EARNEST: Under the leadership of Director Clancy, the Secret Service has worked hard to implement a series of reforms that have strengthened that organization  and have enhanced confidence in it.       
BREAM: The Secret Service says it is reviewing the report and that the agency remains committed to improving and addressing its challenges -- Bret.   
BAIER: Shannon, thank you.   South African Olympic star, Oscar Pistorius, has been convicted of murdering his  fashion model girlfriend, overturning his earlier conviction on a lesser charge.  The Supreme Court of Appeal says Pistorius fired the fatal shots into Reeva  Steenkamp with criminal intent. Pistorius is currently under house arrest. He  was released after serving one year of his five-year sentence for manslaughter.    Still ahead, Jeb Bush takes questions from George Will, Karen Tumulty and Steve  Hayes, plus me in our "Center Seat".    First an exclusive look at a new congressional investigation into Obamacare.   
BAIER: New House Speaker Paul Ryan says he's not interested in playing nice with President Obama. Today Ryan outlined an agenda he described as bold and pro  growth.       
REP. PAUL RYAN, HOUSE SPEAKER: Our number one goal for next year is to put together a complete alternative to the left's agenda. We are not here to  smooth things over. We are here to shake things up.       
BAIER: Ryan says the federal government has grown arrogant, condescending and quote "outright paternalistic".    House members have overwhelming approved a five-year, $305 billion  Transportation Spending Bill. It now goes to the Senate. The bill contains a  renewal of the charter for the controversial export/import bank. Also today  House leaders announced bipartisan legislation to tighten rules on a program  allowing citizens from 38 countries to enter the U.S. without a visa.    A new effort is under way to reveal how many of your tax dollars have been spent  on failing Obamacare state exchanges. And it comes as the President's health  care law is again under attack in Congress. Correspondent Rich Edson tonight is  following the money.       
RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Obamacare spent about $2.5 billion establishing health insurance cooperatives -- customer-owned nonprofits designed  to provide low-cost coverage. The Affordable Care Act funded 23, only one has  made money. 12 are closing. The government investment in the failed dozen --  about $1.2 billion.    Now the chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations tells  Fox News his staff is probing the failures.   
SEN. ROB PORTMAN, OHIO: Well, we're doing a thorough investigation into what happened and why. Obviously, when you have the federal government involved with  start-ups at a time when the health care market is so unstable that's a  dangerous thing to do.   
EDSON: The administration defends the co-ops, claiming they offer affordable insurance.   
DR. MANDY COHEN, CENTERS MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES: New entrants to any market, especially the insurance market can face pressures, particularly in the  early stages. As with any new set of business ventures, some co-ops have  succeeded, while others have encountered more challenges.   
EDSON: Beyond Republican-led investigations and repeal attempts, Obamacare faces rising premiums and the nation's largest health insurer, United Health Care says  it is considering dropping out of the government insurance exchanges for 2017  because it is losing too much money. Conservatives charge the law is unraveling.    Premiums will keep going up. Plans will keep dropping out, people will keep  losing the coverage they depend on, the access to the doctors they want. And  that's not sustainable either economically or politically.   
EDSON: The administration points to major insurers, like Aetna, Kaiser Permanente and Cigna. They say they are still committed to the exchange.  Officials say Obamacare has disrupted the insurance market and claimed it is  successfully evolving into an improved expanded health insurance system.       
EDSON: Will also harming the law is a ban on government payments to insurance companies that agree to cover sicker customers and lose money doing so.  Supporters say the payments -- part of a provision known as risk corridors --  prevent dramatic premium increases. Senator Marco Rubio pushed the federal  funding prohibition calling the risk corridors provision a bailout and is trying  to renew the ban -- Bret.   
BAIER: Rich -- thank you.   Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen told Congress today economic conditions are  falling into place for a raising of interest rates in two weeks. "Wall Street"  was not happy with that or perhaps the jittery security here in the U.S. --  either way the Dow lost 252 today, the S&P 500 was off 30, the Nasdaq fell 86.    Former Vice President Dick Cheney returned to the capital today for the  unveiling of his official bust by sculptor William Behrends. In brief remarks,  Cheney said he hoped to be remembered as a believer in America. Vice President  Biden, the lone Democrat on hand, said he holds inordinate respect for Cheney,  even though he disagreed on most issues. And former President George W. Bush,  making a rare joint appearance with Cheney, said the latter always did what was  right for the nation and that he couldn't ask for a better vice president.    Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush in our "Center Seat", next on SPECIAL  REPORT.   
BAIER: We are pleased to welcome Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush to our Center Seat. Let's bring in our panel of questioners, syndicated columnist,  George Will, Karen Tumulty, national political correspondent for the "Washington  Post," and Steve Hayes, senior writer for "The Weekly Standard." Governor Bush,  thanks for being here.   
JEB BUSH,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's a joy to be with you.  
BAIER: Well, it's a sad couple of days obviously with the tragic events in San Bernardino yesterday, and the obviously the FBI hasn't made their determination  exactly, officially what it is. It looks like the main suspect may have been  radicalized in some way. Yesterday as it was happening, President Obama said  this about the issue of gun control.       
BARACK OBAMA,PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: For those who are concerned about terrorism, some may be aware of the fact that we have a no- fly list where  people can't get on planes. But those same people we don't allow to fly could go  into a store right now in the United States and buy a firearm and there's  nothing that we can do to stop them.       
BAIER: He's calling for legislation. You're thoughts on all of this and this issue as it develops?   
BUSH: Well, first of all, the first impulse I would have rather than talking about gun control is to make sure that we protect the homeland. And last week  the metadata program was ended on November 30th. I think it ought to be  restored. There was apparently some tracking, if he was radicalized, there were  suspects that were being followed by the FBI.    And this is the job of the president. It isn't to turn every instance into a  need for taking rights away from people that are law-abiding citizens. We need  to protect the homeland. And I think every aspect of how we go about that while  we protect civil liberties in this country ought to be used.   
BAIER: And when Hillary Clinton tweets out "I refuse to accept this as normal. We must take action to stop gun violence now," What is your reaction? Should  something be done on the issue of guns? Put this issue aside.   
BUSH: I don't think so. I don't think that there's a national federal government solution to this. The issue of these mass violence, which is so tragic it really  breaks everyone's heart, ought to be, you know, the main thing that we've seen  up until now is mental illness. And we could do better probably identifying  people before they go completely out of control. But there's this impulse to  always solve a problem in Washington, D.C., typically ends up taking rights away  from law-abiding people.   
BAIER: George?  
GEORGE WILL, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: Governor, you say we are at war with ISIS. Yesterday the British parliament felt constrained to vote to authorize simply an  expansion of British strikes on ISIS. We've been striking ISIS now for 15 months  with no congressional authorization. If you were president, would you hesitate  before having, proceeding with force until Congress acted?   
BUSH: I would seek congressional authority. I think the president does have the authority. But I think you need to get people all in on this. We need to have a  budget. If it is a war of our times, then I think we need to be serious.    When President Obama presented this to the congress, and then he backed away, he  put all, all sorts of constraints on it rather than listening to the military  advisers. And not only that, the three Republican senators who are running for  president of the United States did not give him that authority. But I think the  next president should go and get this authority, lay out a clear strategy where  the United States leads to train local forces, to create, make sure that  everybody understands what the clear objective is and go at it and be successful  at it.   
WILL: On a related matter. Two of your competitors are at daggers drawn over the issue of Libya. The attack on Libya was administered by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton, supported by Marco Rubio. Ted Cruz says it was a disaster.  Where do you come down on the U.S. intervention on Libya?   
BUSH: The disaster was there wasn't a clear strategy to create security at the end of this. That's the lesson learned over the last 15 years I think in the  Middle East is if we're going to be engaging and put men and women in harm's way  in uniform, we ought to have a strategy to create a peaceful solution at the  end.   
WILL: Are U.S. interests in stake there?  
BUSH: I don't know. Clearly, we've now made things worse by not having a strategy to create -- we have chaos. We actually have ISIS now with a foothold  that's now undermining Tunisia.    So it appeared to me that this was -- this we were leading from behind. We were  providing support to our European allies without any thought given about the  overall strategy. So in reality I don't think it was the right approach. And  then bragging about it as Hillary Clinton did is pretty amazing.   
BAIER: Karen?  
KAREN TUMULTY, NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT, "WASHINGTON POST": As George was saying, daggers drawn. What is your sense of the debate within your party  about America's role in the world? It used to be that Republicans you know, you  would pick the isolationists school or the internationalist school. Do you have  a sense that it is shifting as a result of this?   
BUSH: I think it's a healthy debate to be honest with you. I think it's clear that some candidates have thought it through, and one particular candidate  hadn't.   
TUMULTY: And name?  
BUSH: Donald Trump. No surprise. Trump has been all over the map. He's lacking a seriousness on this subject and this is a serious matter. We're living in very  dangerous times and we need someone as president that actually has things  through in a proper way. So I welcome the debate. And the differences are  important to discuss for sure.   
TUMULTY: What is he advocating that you consider unserious?  
BUSH: Saying let Russia take out ISIS. Let ISIS take out Syria. Bomb the bleep out of ISIS, all within three weeks' period. That is not serious. Admitting that  he gets his, of course we love the Sunday show here on FOX, admitting he gets  his foreign policy credentials from watching the Sunday shows? That's not  serious.   
STEVE HAYES, SENIOR WRITER, "THE WEEKLY STANDARD": Getting specific on that question, Ted Cruz said the other day that the United States doesn't have a dog  in this fight. Do we?   
BUSH: I disagree with that.  
HAYES: Who is our dog?  
BUSH: The dog?  
HAYES: Who is our dog in this fight?  
BUSH: The threat of global terrorism is the threat for our country. And every day that the caliphate exists is another day that they win and that they can  recruit terrorists. And the chaos in Syria is a grave national security threat  for our country.   
HAYES: Do you think the United States has a moral obligation to intervene when somebody like Bashar al Assad has used chemical weapons on his own people?   
BUSH: Not necessarily. I think you also have to have a national security imperative attached to it. We do, I think it's appropriate1 in foreign policy to  have a moral underpinning for sure. But it can't just be exclusively that.    In this case we have a caliphate the size of Indiana, 30,000 battle- tested,  well-financed terrorists who have declared war on us, and they're declaring war  on the thing we're most vulnerable on, our own freedom. And I think we have to  create a strategy because who else will do this? It's not going to be the French  or the Brits or the Germans, and it's certainly not going to be the Arab nations  unless the United States leads.   
BAIER: More with Governor Jeb Bush in Center Seat after a quick break.  
BAIER: Governor Jeb Bush is in our Center Seat tonight. Governor, a lot of people tweeted in, Facebook messages, Instagram, questions for you. Fred writes  in "The results are in on Common Core and they are overwhelmingly negative. Why  do you continue to support it?"   
BUSH: Well, first of all, the Congress is going to do something incredible. They're going to actually pass a bill to present to the president of the United  States, the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act which I helped work  on. And the net result of that is that the federal government cannot have direct  or indirect, any say in the creation of standards. And that's been my position  from the very beginning.    I support higher standards. And Common Core standards were higher than the  Florida standards that we had. They were implemented after I was governor, and  high standards with real accountability and school choice and a performance  based system of paying teachers will yield rising student achievement. My  passion is to make sure that every child has the God-given abilities to be able  to go to college or get a job, and right now about a third of our kids do.   
BAIER: When you hear Fred and others, and I'm sure you hear it in town halls and in the Republican Party, really concerned about this.   
BUSH: They're concerned about federal involvement principally. They're deeply concerned about federal overreach in education. And their voice was heard, and  the Congress will pass with bipartisan support a reauthorization of the federal  government's involvement in K-12 education that prohibits it. And I support  that.   
HAYES: On the question of crony capitalism, you campaigned saying that you will end crony capitalism if elected president. And yet you look at your biggest  donors, they're the Republicans who are responsible in large measure for  propagating crony capitalism here in Washington on K Street and elsewhere. If  you're elected, do you lock them out? How do you do this?   
BUSH: Yes. They're supporting me because they see that I'm a leading, that I can solve problems, that I have a proven record, unlike others that are running to  have nothing in their past that suggests that they could lead.    And so, absolutely, I'm proud of the fact that people are giving me money. And I  haven't changed my views about anything. I think we ought to phase out the sugar  subsidies. I think we ought to phase out the subsidies in the tax code for oil  and gas, for wind, for solar. We need to phase out the renewable fuel standard  over a period of time. All of these things I've been clear. I go to Iowa and say  these things. Look, I am who I am. And my compass points north, and the fact  that people are supporting me is a good sign, not a bad sign.   
BAIER: George?  
WILL: You have a plan you say for four percent growth, which would be remarkable, and sustained four percent growth. Yet the next president may come  to office in the middle of a recession, we're really overdue for one after a  sputtering two percent recovery. How do you credibly say you can engineer four  percent growth?   
BUSH: If you increase the economic activity by dramatic changes in how we create rules first and foremost. The proposal we've laid out is to say that there  should be two years to be able to get a permit, not 10 years, that we're going  shift power back to the states wherever possible. We've treaded on the 10th  Amendment and trampled all over it. I think the EPA, the department of  education, department of transportation, as much of their programs, Medicaid,  all of things have to go back to the states.    We should embrace the energy revolution rather than trying to make it harder and  harder to create economic activity. We need to reform our tax code. If you  combine all of those things together, you're going to get closer to four percent  growth.    And George, let's just say I got it wrong. Maybe it's 3.75 percent growth. That  would be a phenomenal difference in this tepid new normal of two percent growth  that is trapping people in poverty and seeing $2,300 of disposable income lost  since Barack Obama has been inaugurated.   
BAIER: Karen?  
TUMULTY: If we could go back to topic A among Democrats now after San Bernardino, gun control, what about the specific proposal that the president was  talking about in the tape that we saw earlier? Do you think that if somebody's  name is on a no-fly list that they should be able to get a gun?   
BUSH: If that no-fly list is a concise list, yes, I think that that would be an appropriate qualifier.   
BAIER: We should point out that you're sitting next to someone who was on the no-fly list.   
HAYES: So I wouldn't be able to get a gun.  
BUSH: No.  
HAYES: There's no due process in me not being able to get a gun.  
BUSH: I'm defending you, brother.      
BUSH: My point is the no-fly list is not a concise list of people under investigation or that may be for a short period of time. But if you, if you  narrow that down from that list to people that are, that are being investigated  in an active way, yes, that would be appropriate.   
HAYES: You still don't have the due process on front end, right? By definition if they're on the no fly list --   
BUSH: That's why you would have to narrow it down to the point where it was clearly, there's an active investigation or something like that.    But that's not going to be the answer. The answer is going to be that we have to  identify people before they come to the country or identify them if they're --  if they're communicating with known terrorists outside the country. And there's  ways to do that to protect civil liberties in this country and we need to get  back to that business.   
BAIER: Governor, we always thought Steve was a little sketchy.      
BAIER: Another round on politics with Governor Jeb Bush when we come back.  
BAIER: We're back with our panel and Center Seat Governor Jeb Bush. Governor, let's talk politics. The Real Clear Politics average of all the latest polls has  you at a 5.3 percent. That is 23 percent behind Donald Trump. You take a look at  the latest Iowa poll, you're at 5 percent there, 22 points behind Donald Trump.  I've asked you this question before as have many people about your place in the  polls. Take a listen.       
BUSH: I used to say it's a marathon, not a sprint. I think it's a triathlon. It's a more arduous than a marathon. You've got to swim and ride a bike and run  at the same time. We've got a long way to go.    There is a long way to as always. There will be ups and downs, as always. Herman  Cain was the winner at this time when he was running.    What I meant was that Herman Cain was the frontrunner with close to 30 percent  of the vote, that measuring polls in October and November are completely  irrelevant.       
BAIER: Well, today, in 2011, Herman Cain dropped out of the race. Even though he was leading, he dropped out today in 2011. And here is what people are asking on  Twitter and elsewhere. MDH2 says "Governor Bush, at which point should  non-leading candidates get out and get behind leading non-Trump alternatives?"   
BUSH: I think we need to let the process go forward, and that's exactly what I'm doing. The pundits aren't going to decide who the party's nominee is going to  be. It's the people, for starters, in Iowa, and New Hampshire and South Carolina  and Nevada. And then a surge of, you know, primary states in March.    And I think people just need to be a little more patient about this. Let  democracy work. I am -- we are best ground game in Iowa and in New Hampshire.  I'm a patient person, and I believe that we are making good, steady progress.  And ultimately the decision is not going to be about who is the loudest voice,  who is the biggest personality, who can insult the person the best. It's who can  lead? Who has the proven record to make tough decisions during difficult times?   
BAIER: If staying in means that the vote is split on the non-Trump candidate, are you OK with Trump being the nominee for your party?   
BUSH: Donald Trump will not be the nominee of this party. I feel totally confident in the judgment of the voters, Republican primary voters.   
BAIER: George?  
WILL: Let's stay with Mr. Trump for a moment. It's almost impossible these days for a Republican to get to 270 electoral votes without Florida, the most  important swing state. You know Florida very well. Is it conceivable Donald  Trump could carry Florida?   
BUSH: If Hillary Clinton is indicted for, you know, for her email scandal or something like that, perhaps. I think she is a weakened candidate. But you can't  insult your way to the presidency. You can't insult people with disabilities.  You can't insult people that are Latino. You can't insult women and expect that  you are going to win the presidency.    I had thought, perhaps, that he would have a second act, that as he garnered  this tremendous surge of support that he would actually turn into a serious  candidate, but there is no evidence is he a serious candidate.   
WILL: Trump against a non-indicted Hillary then, Hillary wins?  
BUSH: I'm afraid so.  
BAIER: Karen?  
TUMULTY: At what point do think -- you keep saying there is a long way to go. At what point is there no longer a long way to go?   
BUSH: February 1st would be the leading indicator because that's when the caucuses start.   
TUMULTY: You think this stays fluid right up until voting.  
BUSH: Yes.  
TUMULTY: Where do you think you would be right now in the polls in your name was John Ellis and John Ellis Bush?   
BUSH: You know what, it doesn't really matter. I'm blessed to be a Bush. I'm blessed to be the brother of George W. and the son of George H. W. Bush. And I  am who I am. I have got my own record. I'm running about ideas about the future.  I'm totally comfortable with it.   
TUMULTY: And you are convinced that people are actually hearing this as opposed to sort of stopping it?   
BUSH: Yes. And a lot of -- if you look at the polling that I have seen, a lot of people actually like my brother and love my dad.   
BAIER: Steve?  
HAYES: A lot of talk about the drama between you and Marco Rubio and your relationship with him in the past, and there have been reports that your -- the  super PAC supporting you is willing to be pretty tough on Rubio not just on  policy but going beyond policy. You don't control your super PAC. Where would  you draw the line? You can tell them today what's appropriate and what's not.   
BUSH: Everybody will be -- everybody will have scrutiny. And that's fair game. And that's exactly what I think everybody would want. And I'm not going predict  what the super PAC does. So far the ads that I have seen when I'm working out at 
5:00 in the morning all look pretty good. They are touting me. They're tooting my horn, which is what I like because I think people need to know what my record  is and what my views are about how to fight ISIS and those ads are pretty  effective.   
HAYES: Did you say that working out at 5:00 in the morning thing to prove your high energy?       
HAYES: Is that a response to Trump?  
BUSH: Donald has got his little slippers on and tea and ornate bathrobes. He is calling into the shows at 5:00 in the morning. He is a hard working guy, too.   
BAIER: We'll send the emails your way.      
BAIER: What prospect of teaming up with others like John Kasich to go after Donald Trump, which had been talked about in some analytical circles, much like  2004 against Howard Dean in Iowa that had effect. Do you think that that is  going to transpire over the next 58 days before February 1st?   
BUSH: Look, my focus is getting my message out, the ideas that I have to create higher growth and create a safe and secure America and talk about the leadership  skills that I have. We don't have vast resources to go beyond that, and to build  a ground game in these states where retail politics really matters.   
BAIER: Governor, last time you here you said have me back, things will change. You are back. And it's a couple months later.   
BUSH: You invited me too early.      
BAIER: It's about the same. What is happening in the GOP primary?  
BUSH: You invited me too early. Trust me. I can sense it. When I campaign, our crowds are bigger. The convert rates to our campaign are higher. People are  starting to get serious about this race. And this is not about electing the  biggest personality. This is about having a candidate that can beat Hillary  Clinton. And I believe you cannot beat Hillary Clinton without a proven,  conservative record that is a record that draws people towards our cause rather  than pushes them away, and that you have the skills to actually be president,  because this is a serious kind of time we are living in and you want someone who  has a steady hand, who has a backbone, who has a heart for people.   
BAIER: Governor, thank you. Stay tuned if you will. That's it for the panel. But we are going to see one presidential candidate knock someone's socks off on the  campaign trail.   
BAIER: Finally tonight, President George H. W. Bush, known for colorful, unique sock collections. So at a recent event in South Carolina with its junior Senator  Tim Scott, that was front of mind.       
BUSH: I did notice you had my dad's socks on.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was wondering how long it was going to take.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is my way of honoring the Bush family right here.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I picked up the habit a couple months ago.  
BUSH: It worked out really well.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not quite sure what to say next, but I'll find something.      
BAIER: There was an awkward pause there at the end. He didn't have anything else.   
BUSH: He's a great guy, by the way.  
BAIER: Governor, thanks for being here today.  
BUSH: You bet, thank you.  
BAIER: Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and unafraid. Greta goes ON THE RECORD right now.   
