  
 GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: Killers armed to the teeth, ready to kill even more innocent Americans. The husband and wife duo, the evil murders  behind the San Bernardino massacre armed with an arsenal of weapons including  homemade bombs and thousands of rounds of ammunition. 14 innocent people gunned  down, slaughtered and another 21 innocent people wounded during the Christmas  party carnage.    Right now, the burning question, what was the killer pairs' motive? And are they  part of a terrorist group? Tonight, ON THE RECORD, the background of this killer  couple picked apart. No stone left unturned.    Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former Homeland Security Secretary Tom  Ridge, 2016 presidential candidates Governor Chris Christie and Carly Fiorina,  they're all here.    But, first, ON THE RECORD has live team coverage on the ground, at the scene of  the massacre to the suspect's bomb-making home to Washington, D.C.    Now it all starts with "Fox News" correspondent Trace Gallagher, live in San  Bernardino.    Trace?   
TRACE GALLAGER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: And, Greta, you can see behind me that 30 hours after the shooting, the police presence here is still very strong. A  lot of the streets here are still shut down. Police will be in this position for  some time to come. We should note the big headline of the day comes from the  Associated Press saying reporting that Syed Farook did in fact have contact with  people.    The FBI is investigating for terrorism reasons. Apparently, they were using  social media to contact these people. The question is who were these groups? And  who were these people? We don't know that. And how deep did the contacts go?  Which makes it all the more important when they go to the house of the killers  today and start pulling out all of those electronics, Greta, because we are  talking about cell phone data.    We are talking about computers. If they can get some more information to help  connect the dots. The question the FBI has been wondering is if in fact, they  did have contact with these extremist groups. How deep did it go? Were there  some help in planning this? Was there help in maybe training or funding?    We know the FBI says this was a well-planned attack. The question was, was it  well-coordinated. And, if so, who was it coordinated by?    The cell phones have been taken out. They are now being examined by forensics.  We should know some time very soon exactly who these contacts were with. Police  have also found inside that house thousands of rounds of ammunition as well as  pipe bombs. More than a dozen pipe bombs and hundreds of tools. Tools to make  more pipe bombs.    In fact, there was so much explosive power. The FBI and the local police were  wondering if, in fact, the Christmas party was the target to begin with. Were  they planning an even bigger attack at some way?    But we have also understood, tonight, Greta, that a couple of weeks ago, there  was this dispute, apparently between one of the co-workers of Syed Farook and a  man who was a devout Christian. We are told they had a disagreement over whether  Islam was a peaceful religion or not. That co- worker was among those who were  killed inside the regional center. It was a heated argument. It was not part of  the argument that happened during the day of the shooting when Farook apparently  left the building and then came back with his wife and opened fire.    We can now tell you, Greta, that earlier today the police have ruled out that  third suspect. Last night, at this time, we were talking about a potential third  suspect. Now that person apparently has been ruled out. They believe this couple  did act alone. And, finally, we should note, Greta, that now all the names of  the victims of the dead have been released.    The families have been notified. The 15 people, they range in age from 20 years  old to 60 years old, five women, eight men. I know that's 13 and there were 14  -- I beg your pardon, 14 fatalities, we still don't know the gender of the last  one. The news conference comes up in about an hour and 15 minutes. We hope to  get more information then.    Greta?   
VAN SUSTEREN: Trace, thank you. And justkilled. One even had six children.    But at this hour, the FBI is closing in on the motive for this vicious massacre.  Top of the list, the FBI is hunting for any ties between the killers neither  ISIS or al Qaeda. Have they found any?    "Fox News" chief intelligence correspondent Catherine Herridge joins me.    Catherine, have they found any?   
CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Well, one of the central pieces of evidence that the FBI is looking at are these pipe bombs. The  pipe bombs use components from these remote controlled radio toy cars.    And this is a signature of the group al Qaeda in Yemen and their online magazine  "Inspire," which is kind of like a lifestyle journal for would-be Jihadist. It's  everything from how to live your life, be respectful to your faith and then also  how to build bombs.    So this is a data point that would lead us to al Qaeda.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. We are looking at the new DMV photo by the way of one of the killers of the man, obviously.    Catherine, is there any indication of ISIS, even on social media or anything  that has shown any support for this or contributed in any way?   
 HERRIDGE: Right. Well, this has been a classic situation where ISIS has been cheerleading for what has happened in California. And sort of  triumphing or revelling in the fact that so many Americans lost their lives.  But, significantly, there has been no claim of responsibility.    Just further on Trace's point, we actually independently confirmed here at Fox  that Syed Farook was in contact with individuals who were being investigated by  the FBI on terrorism issues. But our understanding is that he had contact with  this group after those FBI investigations had closed.    Was very reminiscent based on our reporting of the situation in Boston.  Remember, the elder Tsarnaev brother was looked at by the FBI. The case was  closed. And then it was after that he went overseas and came back and did the  attack.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I will tell you what was peculiar. I was listening to a police scanner right after it broke yesterday afternoon. And I heard one person say,  one police officer say to another we have a tip and they said the name was Syed.    And I just sort of dismissed it, except that I told somebody in New York,  they're looking for someone named Syed. Never heard anything more. So they knew  about this guy as a possibility, very early on, unless there is more that than  one Syed.   
HERRIDGE: Right. They had a tip from someone who was -- one of his co- workers who saw him and survived and identified the name. That's what went out over the  scanner. The original name was not Syed Farook. There were two other names that  were attached to it at that time.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, money. Where did they get the money for this, because --       
HERRIDGE: You know, that's a great question. I don't know where the money came from. But they had to have significant cash to buy the ammunition, get the  weapons and then to make these bombs.    I want to emphasize the number of pipe bombs they found really speaks to someone  who has experience with explosives and is good enough that they're not having  accidents to get found out. So that's another important data point here. They  are going to find out in the scrubbing of these electronics that are being  brought to the FBI lab here in Quantico, Virginia. So the cells, the computers,  the thumb drives. What their pattern was on the Web. They're probably going to  be able to pull up bank records from that as well.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, well, we are just getting to "Fox News" a copy of the marriage certificate. They were married on August 4th, 2014.   
HERRIDGE: Yes. As soon as they met in Saudi Arabia, they were there for nine days. They returned to the United States. They had 90 days to get married and  they made it official once they were here.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And, of course, Saudi Arabia raises a red flag for all of us. Anyway, Catherine, thank you.   
HERRIDGE: You are welcome.  
VAN SUSTEREN: This bloody massacre carried out during a Christmas party in a crowded business complex. Hundreds of employees, innocent people inside that  building when this carnage began.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My daughter is in there. She texted us about 30 minutes ago and said that there was a shooter. She thought he shot 10 to 20 people.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She said the guy she saw came in next to her office, and I guess started shooting. They locked themselves in her office. They see bodies on  the floor and she said right now ambulance are taking people out.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The alarms went off and they were all called to hunker down and hide and shelter in place. And she said then eventually the police came by  and took them out. Never heard any gunshots or anything.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Outside, boom, boom, boom. And she was quite and all of a sudden, boom.       
VAN SUSTEREN: ON THE RECORD is live on the ground investigating this horrific and evil rampage.    Griff Jenkins has been pounding the pavement, speaking to people who knew the  suspected killers.    Griff?   
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Greta. Much of the activity today surrounding the condominium owned by Syed Farook, his wife, where his daughter  and mother-in-law lived as well. And no one was more shocked to find out that  there were a dozen pipe bombs and an arsenal of ammo and weapons in that  condominium than their immediate next door neighbors Alan and Amy Frost. Take a  look.       
JENKINS: How close to you were they?  
AMY FROST, NEIGHBOR OF SYED FAROOK: We share walls.  
JENKINS: You share walls?  
ALAN FROST, NEIGHBOR OF SYED FAROOK: Yes.  
AMY FROST: Share walls.  
JENKINS: When you heard the news, when you saw on the news who this was, or I guess maybe you found out first when the S.W.A.T. teams and the police came in.  Walk us through that, will you?   
ALAN FROST: Well, for me, the first indication that I had of how close it was my wife called me when I was at work. And so saying that she was going over to a  friend's house because they were going to be investigating our neighbor. So, for  me, that was my first indication of that our neighbor was a suspect.   
AMY FROST: I was home watching the news, and I received a text from a neighbor down the way in the complex. Her husband found out from a police officer that  was at the end of her driveway, the entrance into the complex. And he said that  the police are going to raid the house that they are living in. And she said I  need to get out of the house right now.   
 JENKINS: They found makeshift bombs.  
AMY FROST: That's what I understand. I didn't speak to the agents about that, but that's what I heard   
JENKINS: That has to terrify you?  
AMY FROST: Absolutely. Who wouldn't be, right?  
ALAN FROST: It is right next door. For us, literally, on the other side of the wall. And so it is disturbing to think about that.       
JENKINS: And we are learning a little more about who Fareed -- Syed Farook was. Remember, he was a health inspector here in San Bernardino County. And we talked  to a restaurant owner, Kasha Shahabi, who was once inspected by him.    Take a look.       
KASHA SHAHABI, RESTAURANT OWNER: This morning I was going through my emails and going through emails and I finally found it and it was him sending me an email  and I saw his name and it freaked me out.    What stands out about him was he seemed disconnected. Didn't really care too  much about what he does. And what I mean by that was didn't have a lot to  rapport.       
JENKINS: And we are joined by Ted Williams, our own Ted Williams, a former federal agent. A homicide detective.    Ted, you've been talking to cops on the ground. What are your first impressions?   
TED WILLIAMS, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Well, my first impressions are law enforcement officers are shocked by this division as to whether this was a  terrorist act or whether this was work-place related. They believe it was a  terrorist act, Griff.   
JENKINS: Greta?  
VAN SUSTEREN: Ted, as you are out there and you're talking to the police officers, I mean, you have to admit that this was an amazing response and that  no one else was killed is absolutely extraordinary. I got to tip my hat to these  police officers.   
WILLIAMS: Yes, Greta. You are absolutely right. The men and women of law enforcement out here have done an exemplary job. They went in. You got to  understand, when this thing first broke, there was a great deal of confusion.  They were out there on the highway. They were in the middle of a shootout. They  went -- they served and protected this community very well. They even went in to  that apartment. There was booby traps in the car. They were dealing with a lot  of question marks out here and they did an exemplary job, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And this is not to lay the blame on anybody. But, if you see something, say something. I mean, certainly if someone is buying all the  ingredients to make this bomb factory at home, you know, someone must have been  suspicious. And everyone is always afraid to speak up.   
JENKINS: You know, Greta, if I could actually just jump in, though, that couple lived -- they were separated from that condominium only by a wall. And I pressed  them on and off camera on whether or not they knew something was going on to  have so much material. And they said honestly no.   
VAN SUSTEREN: They may not be the ones, though, Griff, but somebody sold them the stuff. You know, it's like, I mean, I don't know how much is in there but it  sounds like it's a virtual bomb factory and they did go to a store unless they  went every day at a different store for the last, you know, eight months, I  don't know. But, you know, they must have been suspicious.       
WILLIAMS: You're absolutely right. I think when you look at the proportion of the amount of ammunition, the amount of bomb-making material, the federal  authorities are going to have to backtrack. They're going to look at some of the  bomb-making material. Hopefully, they're going to find fingerprints, they're  going to find forensics on this material that's not either Farook or Malik.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you both. Griff, Ted, thank you. And the violence and bloody shootout with police that ended the carnage and killed the suspect is all played  out on police radio.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: Looks like male with dark shirt, blue jeans running eastbound through the parking lot.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We are in pursuit of the suspect vehicle eastbound on San Bernardino Avenue from Richardson. We've got shots fired out the back  window.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: Looks like we have one in custody.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: Copy, one in custody.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: East San Bernardino, multiple shots fired.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE DISPATCH: Eastbound San Bernardino, multiple shots fired.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We need a Bearcat.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE DISPATCH: Copy. 1795 East San Bernardino Avenue.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We need medical aid.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE DISPATCH: Copy. We are getting them started.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We are at San Bernardino and Shedden. San Bernardino and Shedden. There's one guy down. There's one guy in the back of a car. And we  need that Bearcat.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE DISPATCH: Copy. Bearcat is on the way.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: Right now, we have one down outside the car. One down inside the car. Well, we don't know. Hold on. I meant from what we understand  that one is on the run.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We need medical aid.      
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, it's no secret, many Americans are frightened. They do fear an attack just like this one in their town. So what should we do? What can we  do?    Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani goes ON THE RECORD.    Good evening, sir.   
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER NEW YORK CITY MAYOR: Good evening, Greta. How are you?  
VAN SUSTEREN: I'm very well. Well, it's no secret everyone is suspicious that this is radical Islam. He was born in the United States. But he was -- he  traveled to Saudi Arabia. But he had had a fight previously, not in the day  before or the day of with one of the people that was killed about whether Islam  was a peaceful religion or not. I guess the killer certainly answered that one  for himself.   
 GIULIANI: Well, you know, first of all, we've got to divide this into two stages. I find the first one completely incredible that the FBI has trouble  describing this as a terrorist act.    Whether it's work-related or Muslim-related, Muslim-extremist-related or  insanity-related, this is a terrorist act. You kill 17 people with the kind of  ammunition these people had, the kind of ammunition they had stored up in their  ammunitions factory, which was basically their home, this was a terrorist act.  So why are we afraid to say that? What's wrong with us?    If we don't face this and deal with it honestly, if we don't have the courage to  deal with this honestly, we are never going to be able to figure this out.    Secondly, is it Islamic-related? That's a little bit more difficult to question.  But all the circumstantial evidence points that way, Greta. I mean, here's a guy  who goes and gets a bride from Saudi Arabia -- Pakistan, right? He's an  American. He goes and gets a bride from there. He comes back. He has put  together basically an arsenal in order to do massive attacks.    I mean, luckily, he got killed during the first attack. This guy was ready for  four or five, six attacks. So it kind of sends me in the direction of I wouldn't  definitively say at this point it was Islamic terrorist attack, but it sure  pointing in that direction.    But to have the FBI guy today, not be able to say this was a terror attack and I  have worked with the FBI all my life, as a U.S. attorney, associate attorney  general, man, I found -- as the U.S. attorney, I had gone on television and  contradicted him and said, you are damn right this is a terrorist attack. Now  let's figure out if it is Islamic or not.       
VAN SUSTEREN: You know what, I know nobody wants to say that it's radical Islamic attack. But let's face it, it would be unreasonable not to be suspicious  that it is.   
GIULIANI: Of course, it would be.  
VAN SUSTEREN: In light of what -- I mean, that would be unreasonable. And we will all wait to see what the facts are, but it would be unreasonable not to be  suspicious of that tonight.   
GIULIANI: If you were working for me, when I was U.S. attorney as an agent or as an assistant U.S. attorney, and you didn't have that as a hypothesis, I would  fire you. You would be fired because you would be, you would be too stupid to  work for me.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And, tonight, I assume that the FBI is combing his computer. But one of the problems are when he -- is that his co-conspirators, co- killer was  his wife. So it's not like they are going to have computer messages between the  two of them.   
GIULIANI: Well, here is a guy who is an American citizen, right? And he goes online and picks a wife in Saudi Arabia -- Pakistan. What does that have to tell  you?    Also, there was a neighbor that I saw reported somewhere way down in the "Los  Angeles Times" article today, who said that they saw the couple in the garage, a  suspicious number of times in the weeks leading up to the attack, but they were  afraid to report it.    Now I would like you to go find that neighbor. I would go find that neighbor if  I was investigating this case, because you know what that tells me political  correctness is winning and reality is losing. If that neighbor was afraid to go  report that to the police, then --       
VAN SUSTEREN: And that neighbor -- and I have read that story and the neighbor was afraid that the neighbor would be called a racist so the neighbor didn't  want to, but I got to go.   
GIULIANI: If the neighbor had reported it, you might have gotten a search warrant and you might have been able to prevent this. And I can give you four  cases in New York, we prevented that way. And that's why not calling them  Islamic terrorists and the president refusing to do that is imposing a political  correctness on us that is dangerous. It's dangerous.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Mayor, I got to go. Mayor, I got to go.  
GIULIANI: Thank you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, sir. And outrage is growing instead of hammering mass murderers one newspaper attacks Republicans asking Americans to pray.    Governor Chris Christie is firing back. His response, you have to hear it  straight ahead.    Plus, we have new information about the suspect and their possible ties to  terrorism. ON THE RECORD live coverage, coming up.   
 VAN SUSTEREN: Breaking right now, ON THE RECORD is monitoring the investigation in the San Bernardino massacre. And we are awaiting a news  conference from law enforcement. And as soon as it starts, we're going to take  you back there live.    And, today, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie saying, quote, "We are in the  midst of a world war."    The governor's harsh words coming in the wake of the San Bernardino massacre. So  what did he mean by that?    Just a short time ago, New Jersey governor and 2016 presidential candidate  Governor Chris Christie went ON THE RECORD.    Governor, nice to see you and welcome to Washington.   
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Happy to be here.  
VAN SUSTEREN: This is one of my favorite views. It's of the United States capitol and our government is -- one of the jobs is to keep the Americans safe.  Yesterday in California, terrible crisis, evil.    How would you keep America safe?   
CHRISTIE: First off, we got to enhance our intelligence capability, Greta. Not degrade it, as we have done through hurting the NSA, hurting the morale of our  intelligence community. We used to support law enforcement and give them the  tools they need to intervene before these kinds of attacks happen and we need to  strengthen our military. All three of those things need to be done and needs to  be done right away.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Everyone suspects that this is terrorists. I mean, that this is al Qaeda or ISIS. There's been cheerleading on the internet from ISIS.  Would you step up things against ISIS?   
CHRISTIE: Oh, you have to. And, listen, the fact, Greta, is that as soon as I started watching the coverage of these attacks, you knew that was not work place  violence. You don't go home and grab the wife and get on the tactical gear and  the semiautomatic weapons to come and settle a dispute at work. That was a  planned terrorist attack. It's another intelligence failure.    And what it will tell you is we have to go after ISIS both here at home and  around the world because what's happening is every target in America is now  going to be a target. If a developmental center in San Bernardino is a target,  any place in America is now a target.   
VAN SUSTEREN: But how do you prevent two people who whether the radicalized or whatever, they create a bomb factory in their house and they take the guns in  and they just go shooting up of any place?   
CHRISTIE: Well, you have to increase your intelligence capability around the country, Greta. We haven't done that. That doesn't mean you are going to prevent  everything.    We are a free, open society. And we're not going to be able to prevent every bad  thing from happening. But the greater our intelligence capability is, the better  chance we have of connecting those dots before it happens. These folks, maybe we  could have intervened.    We don't know. We'll still find out the facts. But we know that we degraded our  intelligence capability because of the action of this president and some members  in Congress, on the Republican side as well, and they all need to answer for  that.   
 VAN SUSTEREN: All right, what do you assign responsibility for the president on this?   
CHRISTIE: Well, because, on the failure of intelligence in general, by signing the bill that's taken away from the NSA the metadata capability and by the  things that he and the Democrat from the Senate have said that killed the morale  of our intelligence community.   
VAN SUSTEREN: But that metadata still collected by the telephone companies and you just have to go get a warrant to getemergency, then the  government doesn't even need a warrant.   
CHRISTIE: Yes, but you know what, we are counting on and, Greta, I've been a federal prosecutor. We serve a subpoena on the phone companies. They don't  respond right away. And there is no guarantee in the laws that's passed that  they have to keep that data. So it's not nearly as available to us and it's  certainly not available on a real-time basis.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. This "New York Daily News" cover has horrified many people. Your thoughts about it tonight.   
CHRISTIE: It's reprehensible. It's absolutely reprehensible. And the daily news for their own liberal, you know, pursuits of trying to eliminate the Second  Amendment, want to put that kind of cover on and degrade the power of prayer.  I'm sorry, the power of prayer is still the most powerful thing in the world.   
VAN SUSTEREN: But you know what struck me is that on day one or day two, however, you want to count this is rather on attacking the killers and splashing  having and splashing their faces up here or splashing, you know, what they have  done up here is that they attack a third party. They go after agenda.   
CHRISTIE: Yes. Well, listen, that's the relentlessness of the liberal agenda in this country is displayed by that cover.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Too politically correct in this country? Because, you know, a lot of people are very suspicious about what happened yesterday. We are  still getting the facts and the facts, of course, could be developed much  differently than what we are all suspecting. But, you know, we all suspect it  from day one, from yesterday that this was ISIS, al Qaeda terrorism.   
CHRISTIE: Yes, listen, the fact is it's folks like the president and Hillary Clinton who won't use the phrase radical Islam.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Why won't they?  
CHRISTIE: I think they think somehow it makes them look more kind when, in fact, I think it just confuses the matter more. You know what? Our problem is not with  Islam. It's with radical Islam. You know, peaceful Muslims, they understand.  They understand just as well as anybody that the radicalization of their  religion is dangerous and it hurts people, including them.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Governor, nice to see you and welcome to Washington.  
CHRISTIE: Happy to be back, Greta. Thanks for having me.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And right now, we are learning one of San Bernardino's suspects killed in the shootout traveled overseas. You won't be surprised where. We are  live in San Bernardino -- next.   
GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, ON THE RECORD HOST: This is a Fox News alert, heavily armed and on a mission. The husband and wife pair, the suspects behind the San  Bernardino massacre was armed to the teeth and ready for a battle. Investigation  in to what caused them to slaughter 14 innocent people and hurting so many more,  then now turning up clues that may point to terror. Fox News Correspondent Adam  Housley is live near the suspect's house in Redlands, California. Adam, it  clearly is terror, the question is whether they are connected to anybody   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: You know it's interesting, Greta, you just mentioned. I just got off the phone with one investigator and talked to others  in this last half hour. The folks on the ground do any investigation both  federal and local level will tell you as far as they are concerned this is  terrorism. The problem they believe is coming from much higher level in  Washington, telling their -- basically their bosses not to go path until it's  completely 100 percent in this very narrow definition defined. So they are  frustrated by that, because they want to be able to say that.    At the meantime, obviously, their number one priority is to continue with the  investigation itself. Behind me at this home in Redlands, the federal FBI team  has left with their forensic vehicle that they use. They there is still a couple  of agents here as you might imagine. The apartment has quite a crime scene. But  the actual team itself with the forensic vehicle left, that was recently. I have  also been told by the FBI tonight that there is actually a home in Corona right  now, Corona, California, not far from here where they are -- they will not call  it a raid, and they're basically saying they are checking out the home and  ensuring that there is no security situation there.    That's as far as they will go. They won't give us -- or call it a raid. You can  see the actual apartment here which was a raid that took a long time to go  through. There is still people inside from the FBI, the forensic team as I  mentioned pulled out of here recently, Greta. You can see where that window was  basically knocked out. This is where they found a lot of those devices --  factory or facility where they had the pipe bombs and they had the explosives  also attached to the cars, the motorized cars, Greta. This investigation  continuing in a number of locations, spreading out not only here nationally but  also across the country as well with as internationally, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Adam, thank you.   And investigators are now pouring over the lives of two suspected murderers in  the San Bernardino massacre. They are looking for a motive. A short time ago,  police telling us what they found inside the suspect's home.       
JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: There were 12 pipe bomb-type devices found in that house. There were also hundreds of tools, many of which could be  used to construct IED's pipe bombs. And, in addition to that, they had other  material to have produced some additional bombs as well.       
VAN SUSTEREN: Does this level of planning point to an act of terror. Fox News terrorism expert Whalid Phares is here. Whalid, I know everyone wants to try to  be careful. I will go out on a limb. This is terrorism without any doubt in my  mind. The question is whether this is a freelance copycat that they got  radicalized and did this all themselves, or whether they are in any way part of  a group, which is also another form of terrorism that they were encouraged or  inspired or even paid for or had some help. Either way you look at it. This is  terrorism. This isn't work place where you have a grudge with your boss. You  don't go out and get your wife and come back and shoot 14 people.   
WHALID PHARES, TERRORISM EXPERT: Absolutely. This is exactly where most of the expert community is right now. The government is behind trying to build the case  little by little, piece by piece. There are three major areas. Number one, the  actual operation itself, the fact that they had all this equipment, the way they  executed.   
VAN SUSTEREN: They had a bomb back here at home.  
PHARES: They had all the features that a regular cell of terror in Iraq or Syria would do. More than that, who trained them? They were trained by somebody.  Somebody oversaw that training. Element number two, the wife would leave her  baby to go perform that kind of activity? We have seen it in the Middle East.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Some mother.  
PHARES: This is the style of the Black Widows that attacked Russia in the past, and we have seen those cases in Iraq and Syria. There is another component. The  environment, the tweets coming from ISIS, they did not come when there were  shooters in our high schools. You saw only those tweets when there was an action  by Jihadists or presumed Jihadists. Thirdly, you have what these two persons  have done in the past, traveling and who are they following on twitter? This is  something the government definitely has to have information about it.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You know it's sort of the metadata collection which is they are doing right now to see who they spoke to, where they were on their computer, one  of the disadvantages are these two are living in the same house, talking to each  other. It's not like its one terrorist talking to another terrorist across state  lines or something -- that we would have, you know, across town, so you would  have phone records. I mean, there is somewhat of a limitation. But you are  right, they had had to learn it some place. The internet is a rich place to get  all sorts of information. And you get really ugly information, even how to build  a bomb.   
PHARES: Absolutely. You have the actual internet. And I am sure not just the government everybody else in the private sector is going after that now. But  what the government has in their own hands is the laptop or the computer. This  is everything. I mean, if there is an email it will be there.   
VAN SUSTEREN: The sadness is we are going to find this out and get this information. The problem is it's after the 14 are dead. It's after the 20-some  are injured and shot, 14 dead. One of the people died is a 37- year-old man,  married and six children. It's horrible that we are learning this after the  fact. We need to be ahead of the game.   
PHARES: Absolutely ahead of the game. That's how we are conducting counter terrorism operation. This is a question of policy. I think the administration is  not just careful, it doesn't want to -- the direction to be in that field of  Jehadism unless it's given all the information.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And that's the rough thing is that we don't know about this until after the fact. I would rather stop this than have a good investigation, Whalid,  thank you.   
PHARES: Thank you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: You heard Governor Chris Christie's response to how he would keep this country safe. So what does Carly Fiorina, also a candidate for President  have to say about the evil mass murder in California? Carly Fiorina goes On the  Record next.    Plus, we have more of the breaking news. More information about the suspect in  this mass shooting and possible ties to terrorism. More live coverage coming up.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Breaking right now, On the Record is monitoring the investigation into the San Bernardino massacre. We are awaiting a news conference from law  enforcement. As soon as it starts, we're going to take you right to it.    Growing outrage over the controversial front page of the New York Daily News,  The paper mocking the tweets of Republican Presidential candidates, asking for  prayers in light of the mass murders in California, now the paper displaying  many of the candidates' tweets with giant headline, God isn't fixing this.  Former CEO of Hewlett Packard and 2016 GOP presidential candidate Carly Fiorina  goes On the Record. And welcome to D.C., I know you have been in Iowa, New  Hampshire, and every place else. So welcome.   
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.  
VAN SUSTEREN: What do you make of this New York Daily News page?  
FIORINA: We have to take our country back. We have to restore the character of our nation. I mean, honestly, this is unbelievable. When you read the article,  it goes on to say that the people who pray for our victims and our first  responders are part of the problem. It's just outrageous. The same paper said  that I was the problem behind the Planned Parenthood shooting, because I have  exposed the truth about what Planned Parenthood does. This is what the left wing  does. It's outrageous.   
VAN SUSTEREN: At the very least, on day one they ought to be looking at the killers.   
FIORINA: Hillary Clinton, remember, when she was asked about enemy she is proud of, who was first on her list, Republicans.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I thought she was being flip. I actually thought...  
FIORINA: They think the enemy conservatives and Republicans who might pray after a terrorist attack.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I don't think they were being flip.      
VAN SUSTEREN: I thought the New York Daily News was not being flipped. All right, what would you do? I mean we have had all these shootings, we have had  Colorado, and we had many other shootings and Sandy Hook. We had a lot of mass  shootings in this country.   
FIORINA: Let us begin by enforcing the laws we have. We have a whole list of criminals who are not supposed to own firearms, and we know they do.       
FIORINA: Here we have a situation unclear, but for heaven's sake. They are building bombs in their home. They had been inspected for possible ties to  terrorists earlier. It sounds a lot like the Tsarnaev Brothers case, where we  actually knew something was wrong, somebody investigated them at some point, but  didn't really do anything about it. This is why I think our FBI Director said a  couple weeks ago, even before the Paris attacks that the FBI was, "Overwhelmed  by the number of possible terrorists already in this country. They couldn't keep  up." And, yet, President Obama says that any of us who say that maybe we should  be letting more would be terrorists in if we cannot vet refugees, for example,  he says we're providing a recruitment tool to the terrorists.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. One other thing that -- circle back on that is I think we have to stop being afraid of being called racist. Apparently, if you see  something, you should say something and apparently one woman did see the bomb  factory or see something suspicious and didn't say anything, which I can  understand. But the problem is we do have to step up and not be afraid if we see  something.   
FIORINA: This is the cost of people being shouted down because they express an opinion that the left wing doesn't like. People stop talking, and we cannot stop  talking, we can't stop speaking the truth. And we can't stop saying something if  we see something. But that's the cost, if people demonize the messenger because  they don't like the message.   
VAN SUSTEREN: If you see someone buying five pressure cookers, say something. All right, you have a new blue print, your first year in office, and you have  got a whole list you're going to do. What's top of the list?   
FIORINA: I have laid out six things that I think are vital to get done early on in the first term of my administration, to take our country back. It involves  defeating ISIS, and leading once again in the world. It involves restoring the  character of our nation by standing for life and religious liberty. It involves  enforcing a pro-American immigration system. It involves rolling back the worst  aspects of crony capitalism of which Obamacare is number one. It involves most  importantly getting to zero based budgeting so we can examine every dollar, cut  any dollar, move any dollar, and taking that 73,000 page tax code down to three  pages.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Just to add, the zero based budgeting is if we can figure out how to get rid of some of this waste and fraud in the government we can pay for more  law enforcement or some of the other things.   
FIORINA: Absolutely. It's also true that we have more IRS personnel today because of that 73,000 page tax code than we do CIA and FBI combined, does that  strike you as a misallocation of resources? I think so.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Don't get me started, anyway, Carly Fiorina, welcome to Washington, nice to see you.   
FIORINA: Thank you. Thanks for having me, Greta.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Look at this. These are the faces of evil, the suspects in the San Bernardino massacre, more on the investigation next.   
VAN SUSTEREN: The San Bernardino massacre coming as Americans are increasingly on edge in fear of terror attacks. A new Quinnipiac University national poll  taken before yesterday's slaughter finding that 83 percent of voters say a  terrorist attack, killing numerous Americans is likely. That same poll finding  61 percent of voters say the U.S. government's anti-terror policies have not  gone far enough. Former Pennsylvania Governor and former Secretary of Homeland  Security Governor Tom Ridge goes On the Record, nice to see you, sir.   
TOM RIDGE, FORMER PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR: Nice to be with you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: So 61 percent of the population thinks President Obama's antiterrorism policies not gone far enough. Are you in that 61 percent?   
RIDGE: Absolutely. Plug me in. In order to combat an enemy you have to recognize it as such. We know for the past seven years he has struggled with the term  global war on terror let alone Islamic fundamentalist. So yes, I think they're  right. And I think there is an offensive way to deal with terrorism and a  defensive way. I think America should be -- should understand that there are  hundreds of thousands of men and women go to work every day trying to keep  America more secure from a defense point of view. There are gaps. There always  will be because democracies are soft targets by definition. But I think we need  far more aggressive overseas.   
VAN SUSTEREN: There are two people sitting in a garage tonight building a bomb with legal materials tonight. What are you supposed to do? How is the government  supposed to stop that if it's homegrown radical anything?   
RIDGE: I think that that embrace that notion and understand completely that not every attack is an intelligence failure, not every attack is a condemnation of  the men and women who try to keep us safe. We need to accept the reality of the  21st century, one, America is doing everything we can to keep our streets and  communities safe, but that intelligence does have limits.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You know what? It may not be an intelligence failure but in every single one of these attacks when we go back and reengineer what the person's  life was like, we find out buying five pressure cookers at the store and the  store owner thinks well I did think it was a little weird. People are not  speaking up enough for weird things they are afraid that they will be called  racist or afraid to be called some sort of some horrible bigot.   
RIDGE: Greta, you are on to something is. We are asking people to be little bit of their own environment. Democracies are soft targets. If you see something  unusual or out of the ordinary, a neighbor saw several people congregating at  night, loud noises, whatever, if nothing else a nuisance, more information that  needs to be generated before a final conclusion can be reached. I personally  think this is a terrorist attack. I understand that the FBI has a specific  definition. They are trying to plug all the information in. This is a terrorist  attack. I do think we understand cold hard reality that there are limits to our  ability to keep everybody safe, everywhere, all the time.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, according to that poll taken before yesterday, 83 percent think it was likely we were going to get a terror attack with lots of  casualties. I guess 17 percent who didn't think are thinking differently  tonight.   
RIDGE: You never diminish, Greta, the savagery, the horror and the terror around an attack. But I do want to I -- I am very careful when I say this. We need to  put it in perspective. This year 10,000 people die because they drank too much.  They'll be probably 15 or 20,000 homicides. We do have a tendency to kill  ourselves. So the threat of terrorism in these fundamentalists is real, it's  severe, it's horrific. We got a great country. Most people doing everything they  possibly can to deal with it. We just have to accept that reality and maybe --  highlighted it a few moments ago, be a little bit more of aware of your  surroundings. Call to got on the Muslim community to pay more attention what's  going on in their communities. It seems that the ideology at its roots in  Islamic fundamentalism.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Governor, nice to see you.  
RIDGE: My pleasure.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And coming up, there is a new leader to admire, I will tell you who, off-the-record.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Let's go of off-the-record. Yes, I know, I sound like a broken record talking about the police, but I must again tonight. I want to go on the  record noting my appreciation and admiration for law enforcement. Yesterday's  job by the law enforcement in San Bernardino was something we should all be  proud of. The call went out, a shooting and more than 300 law enforcement  officers immediately responding, running toward danger, not away, and as our  hearts bleed for the 14 massacred victims and their families and friends. It was  law enforcement risking their lives, which stopped the killers before the  killers could kill more by gun or with their bomb-making factory at home.    And I am not the only one who is proud of law enforcement.       
BURGUAN: I will tell you as the chief of this agency, I am incredibly proud of the way our folks responded, not only the response here help and regional  partners, but the way they engaged in that officer involved shooting. That was  nothing short of heroic, and extremely proud of the way that they handled that.       
VAN SUSTEREN: And while the chief won't say it himself, I will. He also needs to take a bow. You don't have law enforcement like San Bernardino without a great  leader, that's the chief. And that's my off-the-record comment tonight. Thanks  for being with us. We'll see you again tomorrow night at 7:00 p.m. and stay with  Fox News for all the late news.   
