  
GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: This is a FOX News alert. The FBI says terrorism, it was terrorism.    And today, the FBI officially declaring a husband and wife killer duo carried  out an act in southern California. The evidence proving that is piling up. The  female shooter pledging her allegiance to ISIS on Facebook on the very day the  couple stormed the Inland Regional Center, slaughtering 14 innocent Americans  and injuring 21 more.    Also today ON THE RECORD, getting an inside look into the couple terrorist home.  This is the home police describe as a bomb factory. Now, we will take you inside  that house of horror. We have live team coverage from the bomb factory house to  the multiple crime scenes to our nation's capital, where just a few hours ago,  the FBI director declaring the massacre terrorism.       
JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: We're here today because we want to make sure you understand this is now a federal terrorism investigation led by the FBI.   
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASST DIRECTOR, LA OFFICE: We are now investigating this as an acted of terrorism.   
COMEY: The investigation so far has developed indications of radicalization by the killers and of potential inspiration by foreign terrorist organizations.   
BOWDICH: We have also uncovered that these subjects attempted to destroy their digital fingerprints. For example, we found two cell phones in a nearby trash  can. Those cell phones were actually crushed. We have retained those cell phones  and we do continue to exploit the data from those cell phones.   
COMEY: We are going through a very large volume of electronic evidence. This is electronic evidence that these killers tried to destroy and tried to conceal  from us that we now have and are exploiting to try and understand them.   
BOWDICH: We have uncovered evidence of explosive, multiple armaments, you know that. You know the ammunition that was out there, the high-powered weapons, the  explosive devices. We are continuing to go down the path to ensure that we find  all of the evidence that pertains to this matter.       
VAN SUSTEREN: We begin with FOX News correspondent Trace Gallagher live in San Bernardino -- Trace.   
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, federal authorities say the wife was using an alias when she went on to Facebook and pledged her allegiance to  Abu Bakr, the leader of ISIS and that she praised ISIS right before the attacks  on the regional center.    They -- later, apparently she tried to delete the posting but as we know by now,  the Feds recovered that though they will not tell us how. The FBI also says they  have evidence that one or both of the killers spoke on the telephone with  someone in the United States that was under investigation by the Federal Bureau  of Investigation. And they had contact with people outside of the United States  that were under investigation by the FBI.    The couple tried to erase their digital footprint, smashing cell phones and hard  drives. But as you heard earlier in those sound bites, the FBI may have salvaged  them and they are trying now to recover that data. It is in Quantico in the  process of being recovered.    There is a belief that the wife is the one who radicalized the husband, became  his bomb maker and his trainer, if you will. But today, the family of Syed  Farook said that there was no evidence at all that the couple had any ties to  terrorism.    The investigation into the weapons goes on. Remember, there were four weapons,  two handguns and two assault rifles. They were bought legally two years ago. The  two handguns were purchased by Syed Farook. But the weapons, the assault rifles  were purchased by another man, believed to be a former roommate. Police know  that man's identity and they say for now he is not under arrest.    We should note that we keep hearing there was such a huge arsenal inside the  home of the killers that they could have planned a second attack or even larger  first attack. Today, the FBI began their news conference by saying that on  Monday of this week, a movie theater, they had two suspicious incidents  involving men of Middle Eastern dissent. They came by to ask questions and take  pictures. The FBI has no idea if that incident is in any way related to what  happened Wednesday, but they wanted to alert of the media that it happened just  the same -- Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Trace, thank you.   And today, what a stunner. We have got a look inside of that home of that killer  couple. ON THE RECORD's Griff Jenkins and Ted Williams walked through the messy  two-story home in Redlands, California, where Syed Farook and his wife and  six-month-old baby lived.    Ted and Griff are live in San Bernardino -- Griff.   
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, that's right. It's one of the most unprecedented accesses to a crime scene anyone in the media has gotten. You will  see all the media there. Here, Ted and I take you inside the home where the two  plotted and carried out what is now being called a heinous act of terrorism.  Take a look.       
JENKINS: We are getting a first look with other members of the media. Obviously, of the apartment here. Ted, let's walk through and see what we see.    We know that authorities were worried about the explosives, 12 pipe bombs found  in here. We don't know the exact locations. Clearly, the authorities pulled this  place apart. Some of this mess may have been from their.    We see the window knocked out. I'm not sure what we see -- a hatchet here in the  drawer. Not necessarily something, Ted, that we find in a drawer with kitchen  utensils. A very large mallet style hatchet.    We know that the authorities went through this back area. We talked to the next  door neighbors. The Frost, they told us that these windows were shattered. We  see the glass here amidst what was the -- is the play pen for a child, a stark  and sad reminder that there is still a 6 month old daughter now without parents.   
TED WILLIAMS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Now, this is interesting here, Griff, because here is -- when the FBI and other authorities go in a list from what  they take from the home. They actually leave here.    And what we see here is the United States Department of Justice Federal Bureau  of Investigation. And it shows a description of the various items that they have  taken from this home. And what is interesting here, we see there is ammunition  that has been taken from this home. They have removed electronics.   
JENKINS: Computers there and gig bites.  
WILLIAMS: Right.  
JENKINS: And as we see, we can show this, can get a little closer look. The 13 boxes of 50 rounds as you say, 10 boxes of 100 rounds, 9-millimeter, 14 boxes of  50 rounds, two 23 caliber. One bag of 20,000 rounds. These are the AR-15 style  assault rifles that were used in this attack.    One thing Ted, we don't know as we get a first look is of the 12 pipe bombs,  that are believed to be in here, one would think in this back window and why we  saw the glass and the shattering was that authorities were worried it would  clearly have been booby trapped in the entry, any way that people were coming  and going out of here would be where the bombs were. Is there anything that you  see that indicates where they may have put these explosives?   
WILLIAMS: Not in this area. But clearly, the explosives are very well just have been out here in the open. And so, what law enforcement had to do was take their  time in entering this place because they were clearly concerned about booby  traps.   
JENKINS: An enormous amount of information as you sees a Ted, as investigator as former homicide cop was able to glean. Later in this show, Greta, we are going  to take you upstairs and what we found was nothing short of shocking -- Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Ted, having investigated that scene, was there -- having gone inside, was there any information that they have taken a lot of information  about trace evidence? For instance did, you see a lot of fingerprint dust? Did  you go into the bomb-making area and see where weather they have printed that  area. Were there pieces of carpet cut out so they would like for some sort of  fiber samples?    Was there -- I suppose they did some swabbing for possible DNA and glass. But  was there anything hint that the FBI was also looking for trace evidence to see  if anybody else had been in there?   
WILLIAMS: Well, Greta, there was no discernible hint that those things have taken place but I have got to tell you. I think that the FBI and local and state  law enforcement officers methodically took their time. They knew what they  wanted to take from there and quite naturally as we said, they listed what they  took from there, the various pieces of evidence.    I think they did a good job of going in there, Greta, meaning the local and  state and local authorities.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You know, Griff, looking at your video of what you and Ted shot, it's it eerie. This was planned. They dropped the baby off and done a lot of  planning for this. Yet, when you look at the video it looks like they are coming  home soon. The couple is coming home soon. They have left everything, their  pictures, everything.   
JENKINS: I think for any parent watching this, just to see the video as it struck us, standing in inside there knowing that a 6 month old had been  abandoned and the materials that clearly were weapons and bomb-making materials  showed that this story did not have an ending. That this child would grow up  without parents because they had gone off to carry out this act of terrorism.    That was, perhaps, the most damning and most chilling standing amongst where we  were, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. We will show more of what you both saw inside that home, the upstairs. Thank you, both.    And, of course, we are getting more information, including the bloody aftermath  of the police shootout that successfully stopped and killed these two  terrorists. We warn you, this image is graphic.    TMZ has obtained this photo showing Syed Farook dead, lying in his own blood in  the street.    FOX's correspondent Peter Doocy has been looking into the murder's possible ties  to ISIS. Peter joins us -- Peter.   
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, this is really interesting. When you log into Facebook, the right away right at the top of the page, what's on your  mind. And as the carefully planned attacks in California began on Wednesday,  Tashfeen Malik told her Facebook friends in that space that she pledged  allegiance to the Islamic State and its leader Abu Bakr al Baghdadi.    Authorities announce that they recovered that post this morning. And we learned  this afternoon the timing of the post matched up with the timing of the attack.  The reason the post needed to be recovered is because Facebook deleted Malik's  account when they realized it was promoting terrorism.    The social network says they work aggressively all the time to prevent  terrorists from using their services. This was one of those times.    And the social media connection is significant because we know ISIS uses that to  recruit and that is why the State Department tried to spearhead a campaign using  messages to counter ISIS, a campaign they concluded several months ago wasn't  having the kind of success it was supposed to. It's still unclear tonight if  Facebook is how this couple in California became radicalized or if they  communicated on Facebook with any terrorists overseas.    And even though we don't know exactly what Malik wrote in this post yet, we know  it's a really important piece of evidence that helped had the FBI conclude this  was a planned terror attack. It also helped tie up a loose ends because it was  ISIS she was writing about on Facebook. Not work place violence.   
VAN SUSTEREN: So she attempted to delete this passage and Facebook took the whole account down?   
DOOCY: Yes. Facebook says that they have this strict policy. They have go through their entire network and they are looking all the time for different  words.    We do know that this post was not taken down right away. We don't know how long  it was up. But it was up for a while before somebody saw it and they deleted it.  That makes it harder for the FBI to look at it from their offices but Facebook  has given them everything that they need.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I'm sure they will get a history whether she has other posts that are suspicious. Thank you, Peter.    And the parents killers, Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik, appeared to many to be  a normal couple, but they were killers hiding in plain sight. How did they go  unnoticed and how can we prevent this from happening again?    FOX's Mideast and terrorism expert Walid Phares joins us.    You know, everyone says the quote they were normal, even the lawyers say that  they were typical normal housewives that she was, although she was living in a  bomb factory. I don't know how typical that is.    What do you think about this?   
WALID PHARES, TERRORISM EXPERT: Well, that's how they are. That's how they should be if they are jihadists. Take most of the cases we have in the United  States, the successful ones and the unsuccessful ones, almost every time after  the fact you are going to have neighbors, you're going to have a teacher, you're  going to have a friend say they were normal. They were friends.   
VAN SUSTEREN: It's interesting how everyone is now -- I shouldn't say -- people are now saying that radicalized him. Yet, we also hear from the lawyers today  that she was dressed in a burqa. She didn't talk to men. She didn't drive. She  hardly seems to be the aggressive type when you hear that picture of her.   
PHARES: So, what would be -- my question for the lawyers, what would be the aggressive type? We don't know what the jihadi --   
VAN SUSTEREN: Oh, no, no. She is plain killer.  
PHARES: If they are saying she did not display anything radical. What would that mean? Otherwise the radicals those writing blogs as well on Facebook. She was  not. She would hide her activities and her thoughts so that she would be  successful operationally.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You know, I always want to, like, you can read an English post. You know, I can pretty much whether it's terrorist or not. But some of these are  written in Arabic. So many of these communications that, you know, I imagine  that so many we miss. I know we have experts in the FBI. But, still.   
PHARES: We do have excellent experts within the FBI. Even when you write in Arabic, you are not going to putted operational Arabic so that the FBI law  enforcement are going to see it but the difference is that we know as experts if  she is extremist, if the narrative is extremist, she should be in a pool. What  happens is the administration removed that poll. They called extremist as  freedom of though. So, that's where we have a gap between extremists and  terrorists.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Walid breaking right now, we are seeing the first picture of Tashfeen Malik. This photo was obtained by ABC News. She is the  female terrorist who pledged her allegiance to Facebook on Facebook before  slaughtering 14 innocent people during the San Bernardino terror attacks.    Look at that woman. That's a picture of evil.   
PHARES: Well, now we know unfortunately there are a lot of pictures like her but not everybody is violent. The issue is not now, we are --   
VAN SUSTEREN: She is showing her face. That's not a burqa. She's showing her face.   
PHARES: She is showing her face and obviously many people before that has testified she has shown her face. The issue is, what was inside her mind? What  was inside her narrative and what were her actions? And that was not --   
VAN SUSTEREN: How does she go under the -- the bigger question is how she go under the radar? I understand that it's hard to get a homegrown terrorist or  something about this. But she was under the radar apparently to so many people  other than people must have been suspicious if she was buying bomb equipment or  if he was.   
PHARES: She is not going to do that actually, I suspect that most of those who are like her who are going to conduct successful operations are not on any list.  And the FBI knows that.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And, again, that picture right there. That is the evil terrorist. ABC News obtained that picture. But that is the first picture we are seeing of  this woman, Pakistani descent. And she came over to the United States to marry  this man.   
PHARES: Spend some anytime Saudi Arabia. We don't know much about that as well.  
VAN SUSTEREN: I assume we will get it very soon. There she is. There is the terrorist.    Anyway, Walid, thank you.   
PHARES: Thank you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: The focus of the media, with the exception, of course, of "The New York Daily News", has been on the killers.    So, who are these killers and why? Of course, it's also very important to noted  something else, 14 innocent Americans were murdered, slaughtered by these two  horrible people.    FOX's correspondent Jonathan Hunt, though, has more on these 14 victims and the  family who's lives have been forever changed -- Jonathan.   
JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: If you wanted to find a cross section of America, you could have walked into the holiday party being held at the Inland  Regional Center in San Bernardino Wednesday and found it hard-working fathers,  mothers, sons and daughters, black, white, Hispanic, Asian, some born here, some  immigrants who had fled other countries to escape persecution or violence.    Then violence found them. And last night, thousands gathered at a candle lit  vigil to remember the 14 gunned down and killed so brutally at that party.    Among them, Bennetta Bet-Badal, she was 46 years old and left her native Iran  when she was 18, apparently to escape Islamic extremism and to pursue her  husband said the American dream.       
ARLEN VERDEHYOU, VICTIM'S HUSBAND: She had that opportunity. She raised her beautiful three kids. Got the house, education, work and enjoying life.  Vacationing spending time with the family, unfortunately taken away by an evil  man and evil woman.       
HUNT: Thirty-one-year-old Tin Nguyen was another who came to America for a better life. Her mother fled Vietnam when Tin was 8 years old to bring her to  the United States. Her father said that just days ago, Tin was trying on wedding  dresses. She planned to marry her boyfriend in 2017.    Nicholas Thalasinos was 52 years old and worked with Syed Farook, one of the  shooters. Thalasinos was a messianic Jew. And while he was apparently outspoken  about Islamic terrorism, he got along well with, according to his wife, with his  Muslim colleague. Jennifer Thalasinos also said her husband always put others  first and she said she is cherishing the memory of her last moments with him.       
JENNIFER THALASINOS, VICTIM'S WIFE: And he dropped me off. I had snack day at my job. I'm a second grade teacher.    I had snacks I needed to bring in. He said I will bring them no for you. I got  an extra hug and kiss before he left. So, I'm just holding on to that I'm just  grateful for that.       
HUNT: Forty-year-old Robert Adams grew up in the San Bernardino area. He married his high school sweetheart. For years, they tried to have kids. Twenty months  ago, their daughter Savanna was born. Friends said he doted on her, taking her  to play in a local park almost every day. Posting pictures of her on Facebook  every night.    Those are just snapshots of four lives, Greta, four of 14 ordinary American  lives taken in such an extraordinary and brutal fashion -- 14 families  devastated, struggling like the rest of us to understand why -- Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You know, Jonathan, every single one I read there was a father I think he was 37 years old with six children. There are these hateful, horrible  people.    Anyway, Jonathan, thank you.    And today, the White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest calling this massacre an  act of terrible violence. But our FBI director stepping up to the mike just  hours later and declaring this an act of terror. So, why hasn't the president?  That's next.    Plus, ON THE RECORD will take you back inside this deadly couple's home. That's  coming up.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Breaking right now, today, the FBI director announcing what you all though, this was an act of terror. But so far, President Obama has been  silent, silent, despite this now been the single deadliest terror attack on  American soil since 9/11.    "FOX AND FRIENDS WEEKEND" co-host Tucker Carlson goes ON THE RECORD.    Tucker, when are we going to hear from the president?   
TUCKER CARLSON, CO-HOST, "FOX & FRIENDS WEEKEND": Probably soon. I imagine there is a lot of political pressure growing on him, not least from the Hillary  Clinton campaign. At some point, denial becomes delusion and we are approaching  that point. So, I think he is going to have to acknowledge this is part of a  pattern and it joins the Paris attack and the downing of this Russian airliner,  of course, in taking of a good portion of the country of Iraq and also Syria as  signs of the growing threat of ISIS.    What bothers me, though, is his inability. I don't think it's just an  unwillingness. I don't think he can understand their motives. He today explained  that they are doing this because they are mad about global warming or they're  angry about being poor, as if people commit murder or kill themselves because of  economic reasons.    These are people motivated by religious instincts. They think they are going to  heaven by doing. He doesn't understand that and that's scary.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, you know, it's been quite obvious. Obviously, the FBI does have to wait until it has proof.   
CARLSON: Of course.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Indeed it was.   But listen to what Josh Earnest said today just a short time before the FBI  director said this is an act of terrorism. Here is the White House press  secretary for the president.       
JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Looks like people intent on carrying out act of violence.   
BOWDICH: We are investigating these horrific acts as an act of terrorism.      
VAN SUSTERN: Terrible act of violence. That's what he says this afternoon. I'm thinking to myself what is he talking about.    You got the problem that the day before terrorists, President Obama is saying  that ISIS is contained and we have these maps which show you that ISIS is not  contained. It's growing. So, I just don't get this.   
CARLSON: Well, the president seems all alone in this. I mean, Josh Earnest isn't stupid. He knows his words are in effect parody of the truth. It's absurd. And  everyone knows it's absurd.    I think political considerations play a role here. Muslims are a key  constituency for Democrats. They will be a key player in this upcoming  presidential election. That's not a small thing.    But I think it's bigger than that. The president sees this and almost else in  American life as part of an ongoing civil rights battle. And the main concern he  has and I think his attorney general has, she said it yesterday, there will be  backlash against Muslims.    Nobody wants that. That is a concern. Is it the top concern? No. It's maybe the  fifth concern after getting shot to death in the shopping mall. But that's the  way he sees the world.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You can see the two maps. One is February 2015 and then you've got November. Look at the difference in the red. The president said it's contained,  nothing but growing.    Here is what I don't understand the president such an important thing, terrorist  violence since 9/11 for us is that the president sends out FBI director and  attorney general that he doesn't take over and show -- and make the statement to  the American people?   
CARLSON: Well, that's an excellent point. I mean, there is a lot of daylight between the FBI director Mr. Comey and the president on this and other issues.  The FBI has taken steps pretty obvious ones, public ones in the last several  months to say, look, we are independent of the White House.    Among other things this is a bad sign for Hillary Clinton who is being  investigated by them as you know. I think it's admirable on the part of the FBI.  You want FBI that's independent of political interference. So, again, good for  Director Comey.    But it makes the like the president again standing out by himself muttering  about how the earth is flat. It's unbecoming. It's embarrassing and it makes  people like Donald Trump much stronger.    Americans look at the president. They don't think he is going to protect them.  Starting to suspect people like Trump will. That's one of the reasons his  numbers are going up, Trump's are.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Lot is going on. We keep getting new facts and tomorrow on "FOX & FRIENDS" I assume you have that as well, Tucker, on the weekend. Thank  you, Tucker.   
CARLSON: Thanks a million, Greta.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And ON THE RECORD will take you back inside the home where the two terrorist murderers live with their infant daughter and made bombs. We're live  next.   
VAN SUSTEREN: This is a Fox News alert. We are now seeing the first picture of Tashfeen Malik. This photo was obtained by ABC News. She is the female terrorist  who pledged her allegiance to ISIS on Facebook. The FBI now announcing she  pledged her allegiance to is before carrying out the carnage.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are now investigating this as an act of terrorism.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is now a federal terrorism investigation led by the FBI.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have the mandate to investigate terrorism to its fullest extent.   
COMEY: Our investigation to date and, again, it's only two days old, so far we have no indication that these killers are part of an organized larger group or  formed part of a cell. There is no indication that they are part of a network.  Again, I quickly add it is early. We are still working very hard to understand,  but I wanted you to know that so far we don't see such indications. Second,  there is nothing in our holdings about these two killers. I have seen reporting  where folks have focused on reports that they were in contact. At least one of  the killers was in contact with people, who had been the subject of FBI  investigations, either investigations that were closed or that were still open.  I would urge you not to make too much of that.   
BOWDICH: Those cell phones were actually crushed. We have retained those cell phones and we do continue to exploit the data from those cell phones. We do hope  that the digital fingerprints that were left by these two individuals will take  us towards their motivation.       
VAN SUSTEREN: And now we are seeing inside heir home, their bomb factory. This is where they lived and planned that attack. Fox News Correspondent Will Carr is  live outside the killer couple's home, Will?   
WILL CARR: Good evening, Greta. Earlier today, the FBI coming out and now saying this is a federal terrorism investigation. They say extreme planning went into  this. Now, earlier in the day we confirmed that Tashfeen Malik had posted on  Facebook the day of the shooting that she had pledged her allegiance to ISIS. It  was a short time after we confirmed that that the owner of the apartment showed  up here. He said that authorities had turned the apartment over to him and he  offered to take us inside. We were careful not to touch any personal  possessions, but I want to show you what we did see, take a look.    We're outside of the apartment in Redlands, California where Syed Farook and  Tashfeen Malik lived with their six month old baby and Farook's grandmother. The  FBI had to actually go in through the window here because they were concerned  that the apartment was booby trapped. We will walk you inside. As you know now,  they ended up finding 12 IEDs. This has been called an IED factory. We spoke to  the owner, the man who owns this apartment. And asked him what his reaction was  when he found out his tenants were the ones behind this massacre. Take a listen  to what he said.   
DOYLE MILLER, LANDLORD: It is not real.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What Syed seem like to you?  
MILLER: He seemed like a normal person.  
CARR: Much of the apartment appeared normal. It is what we didn't see that was alarming. The FBI left receipts inside for what they took out, the receipt  showed thousands of rounds of ammunition, guns, technology like laptops and hard  drives. All of what they would have used on Wednesday to pull off the deadly  attack, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Will, thank you.   And we are learning more about this evil killer couple Syed Farook, this  American citizen but his wife Tashfeen Malik, she came here in a special visa  from her fiance American citizens. How much screening did she get? Immigration  Lawyer Wane Massey goes On the Record, good evening, sir.   
WANE MASSEY, IMMIGRATION LAWYER: Good evening.  
VAN SUSTEREN: She was here on what is called a K1 visa. What is that?  
MASSEY: The K1 visa is visa used by American citizens who want to bring their fiance to the United States, essentially they petition the government to  classify individual abroad as a fiance And the petition goes through, DHS  forwards it to the Department of State for an interview.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Now, in connection with this, I imagine there is some screening. I saw some reference in the State Department they do extensive screening, and I  looked a little bit deeper and all that was said was they do fingerprints and  some facial recognition software, which is not particularly extensive in my  mind. Maybe they do more. Do you know how, "extensive" this screening is?   
MASSEY: I have some idea of how extensive it is. Essentially, they run the fingerprints and photograph as you learned on the website. They also run by  graphic information about the individual against FBI data bases, international  criminal databases, and other databases maintained by various agencies in the  U.S. government. If a person has not created a flag in any of those databases,  then they wouldn't come up in the security checks obviously.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, well, I guess -- quibble with the State Department the definition of what is extensive. Basically, a woman with no record can come here  on a K1, right, that's essentially what it is.   
MASSEY: When you say no record, she has no criminal record of any kind.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Is there an interview.  
MASSEY: There is an interview, yes. So there is an interview at the counselor post. She is interviewed in person after her biometrics have been run, and even  after that, I understand she was able to apply for and was granted conditional  residence status which means she was also interviewed by DHS here in the United  States. There just not have been any flags.   
VAN SUSTEREN: She comes to the United States and has to get married within 90 days provided she does she is eligible for a green card.   
MASSEY: She is eligible to apply, yes.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Any idea the number of people who come in on these fiance visas a year?   
MASSEY: I don't know the exact number, but I think this past year it's somewhere around 35,000.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And is there sort of a part of the world where they come from? Do we have -- are these countries that offer us something like a K1 visa,  Americans?   
MASSEY: I don't know that we have reciprocity with all of them for fiance visas, no. But many of them have diplomatic relations with us obviously, that's why we  have counselor posts there.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Do you have any idea what nations tend to be most represented in terms of K1 visas?   
MASSEY: I do not, sorry.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you very much. I appreciate you.  
MASSEY: All right. Thanks for having me.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And On the Record goes inside the bomb factory home where the terrorists lived. That's coming up.   
VAN SUSTEREN: The media swarming the terror couple's home after the FBI released the scene. On the Record's Griff Jenkins and Ted Williams joins us inside. This  is live in San Bernardino with what they found on the second floor, Griff?   
GRIFF JENKINS: That's right, Greta. As we mentioned earlier, now we take you upstairs which for not only this homicide detective and federal agent but also  for any reporter and all our viewers will see the most shocking part of what we  found in the house. Take a look.    Let's go upstairs, Ted, and have a look and see.   
WILLIAMS: As we are going up the stairs, we see a dark green carpet that is outlined or the stairway here. There is nothing certainly out of the ordinary  here. The only concern that law enforcement would have had in entering this  place was, was it booby trapped?   
JENKINS: This seems to be the closet for the mother.  
WILLIAMS: What is very interesting about this closet is what law enforcement saw. When you look up above here, there was -- where law enforcement, I am sure  made some entrance to go up here in this ceiling area here to make some kind of  determination as to whether they could find anything connected with this family  that they may have very well hidden up there.   
JENKINS: We are in the child's room. We see the nursery. We're literally -- we will look in the closet.    Ted, let me bring your attention here. This is something that you wouldn't find  in the closet is of an infant. This is Remington gun oil for cleaning your gun,  lubricating and corrosive protecting firearm stuff. We see here magnum precision  air rifle. If you can, let's have a look and see what's in here. Multiple,  multiple air rifle ammunition, clearly we had heard that there had been  targeting going on in the backyard, the backyard not very big. This is  fascinating that we find any kind of weapon in the closet of the room that is  clearly where the child slept.   
WILLIAMS: You know what is more fascinating is that law enforcement left some of these kinds of items here after scrubbing this home.   
JENKINS: Greta, those pellets as you can certainly look back at the cases of pipe bombs, IEDs, improvised explosive devices, we see pellets used as part of  those bomb making materials. Something that certainly stood out, Ted, I know you  were taken aback that we would find actual bomb-making materials still inside  that house.   
WILLIAMS: Absolutely. And in light of the fact that we were told by law enforcement that they found 12 pipe bombs in there, to find those pellets, those  pellets are clearly used as bomb-making material, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Ted, before I let you go. I want to ask you about the lawyers for the family that gave the press conference today. You were there. I have to tell  you from here it seemed peculiar calling the woman terrorist a typical normal  housewife, obviously not in my mind. She makes bombs.   
WILLIAMS: Greta, there comes a time where lawyers are just stuck on stupid. That's one of those instances. This is not a typical house where you go in and  find 12 pipe bombs. You find bomb making material. You find over 5,000 rounds of  ammunition. I don't know what these lawyers were talking about, but it's a sad  commentary when we find lawyers coming out in the public domain after 14  individuals have been shot dead, 21 injured, and to make such disingenuous  statements.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I think they were just over their heads in this because that was, to quote the president, "J.V." Anyway, not to mention just a horrible  mischaracterization of this woman, because she was hardly your typical housewife  whatever that means anyway.    And the San Bernardino massacre officially a terror attack. How does that change  the investigation? That's straight ahead.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Now that the FBI has declared the San Bernardino massacre was an act of terrorism, how does this change the investigation? We are also getting  our first look at both suspects, the female shooter's picture came by ABC News,  and Former Chief of Staff of the Department of Homeland security and Former CIA  Director of Operations Chad Suite goes On the Record, good evening, sir.   
CHAD SWEET, FORMER CIA OFFICIAL: Good evening. And just for the record, I wasn't the Director of Operations. I was in the Director of Operations.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you. According to the FBI, the killers, terrorists were trying to erase their digital fingerprint and they smashed those cell phones.  Tell me, what are they trying to do now?   
SWEET: Obviously, what we know they are attempting to cover their digital footprint as you said, Greta. Given your legal background you know how important  that is for investigations. What's important to know right now though is that in  addition to the cell phones they obtained a computer, multiple thumb drives, and  a music player. So from that -- all those different forms of media, our law  enforcement experts are well prepared to diagnose and determine and connect the  dots of those footprints. One of the most important things to know is in this  will be a historic investigation. Why, because this will be the first major  investigation after the NSA's domestic surveillance program has been reformed by  people such as Senator Cruz.    The government's ability to equally powerful to determine if connected with this  just like in Paris all law enforcement and intelligence officials will be able  to track to down efficiently and bring them to justice.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Now, you mentioned a law that's been changed. I mean the main difference as I understand it now to get that metadata is now held by the  telephone companies and not by the government. The investigators simply have to  get a warrant to get it from the telephone company unless there is an emergency  unless they can bypass it they can get the information, right? There is no  impediment?   
SWEET: Absolutely, Greta. In fact, I think one of the unfortunate things there is some like Senator Marco Rubio who have asserted that the government cannot  access under the new solution that Senator Cruz and others proposed to get  access to those we suspect of terrorism or who have actually committed acts of  terror. That is actually incorrect. If you look at the evidence and don't take  my word for it, the Director of National Intelligence in a letter dated May 15th  stated very clearly that the USA Freedom Act preserves the essential operational  capabilities of the program and, in fact, Greta, it expanded the intelligence  capabilities to include things such as cell phones which are now involved in  this case.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Indeed they are. Chad, thank you very much.  
SWEET: Thank you, Greta.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Coming up, the pictures inside this home are disturbing. Was it right to go in? I will tell you what I think off-the-record, of course. And some  of you may not agree with me.   
VAN SUSTEREN: This is a Fox News alert, terrorists inspired by ISIS Tashfeen Malik pledging allegiance to ISIS on Facebook. Fox News Correspondent Adam  Housley is live at the terrorists' home, Adam.   
ADAM HOUSLEY: Yes, Greta. In fact, we do expect major developments as this case moves forward. We know agents, federal and local are doing everything they can  to find possible money trail. They also have not ruled out the possibility that  these two might have somehow connected with Al Qaeda. They are saying it may not  just be an ISIS situation. They really don't know exactly that part of the  investigative process. But they do know as of tonight they do believe other  people, another person, somebody helped them in some way. They don't believe  they could have afforded to do what they did without that help.    Where does that lead? Greta, we don't know at this hour. They are doing whatever  they can to find out as the night moves on, but of course, the headline today  the fact that the FBI officially now says that they are investigating an act of  terrorism, Greta?   
VAN SUSTEREN: Adam, thank you.   Ok, let's go off-the-record now. I have to admit I am conflicted. As a  journalist, of course the reporter should go in the terrorist' home to get all  the information they can. That's our job to get you all the information we can.  But I am also a lawyer. And I cringe at the bad judgment of the FBI to release  that crime scene so soon. What were they thinking? Yes, the two terrorists are  dead so there would be no trial for them. What if others were involved? Maybe  others were in that house giving them money finance that massacre or build  bombs. Anyone inside that home left trace evidence like fingerprints, DNA, and  new information could arise making the FBI want to go back and look again in  case they missed it.    Now, remember the OJ Simpson case, the murders were on June 12th but the police  went back to the murder scene three weeks later and found OJ's blood for the  first time on the back gate. Sometimes items might not seem relevant at first.  Another example, within hours of finding Simpson's ex- wife dead, law  enforcement saw dark wet clothes in OJ's washer in Rockingham. They never seized  those clothes, maybe because at the time those clothes might not have seemed  that important. You get my point. Never release a crime scene too early. So,  yes, what's the FBI thinking or wasn't it?    That's my off-the-record comment tonight. Stay with Fox News all weekend for  late breaking developments on the San Bernardino terrorism, and set your DVR to  record On the Record so you never miss a show. If you can't watch On the Record  live, then play back On the Record after you are finished watching other  favorite Fox programs, how about 11:01 each night. That's the ABC News picture  of the killer. That's the woman. That's the terrorists. That's the massacre --  the one who did the massacre, she and her husband, evil, evil, evil.    Terrorist, rotten, doesn't get any worse than that. We will see you Monday night  right here 7:00 p.m. Eastern. Good night from Washington.   
