      
BILL O'REILLY, FOX NEWS CO-HOST OF "THE O'REILLY FACTOR" PROGRAM: The O'Reilly factor is on. Tonight:           
HILLARY CLINTONPRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have to finally, once and for all, fix our immigration system. We cannot wait any longer for a path to full  and equal citizenship.       
O'REILLY: A factor investigation on what the left really wants to do about illegal immigration. This might shock you.       
DONALD TRUMP,FRONT-RUNNER, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: How about CNN. I will not do the debate unless they pay me $5 million.       
O'REILLY: Donald Trump threatening to pull out of the CNN debate two weeks from tonight. He says he wants the money to be donated to vets. We  will have a special report.    Also, ahead, what is the truth about American Muslims cheering after the 9/11  attack? Our "Truth Serum" correspondents on the case.       
O'REILLY: Caution, you are about to enter the No Spin Zone. "The Factor" begins right now.       
O'REILLY: Hi, I am Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching us tonight. The left's secret immigration plan. That is the subject of this evening's talking points  memo. In order to win the presidency in 2016, both the republican and the  democratic candidate will have to get a good amount of votes from Hispanic  Americans.    On thanksgiving, the "New York Times" ran an editorial that pretty much laid out  what the liberal viewpoint is on people coming to live in America. Point number 
1: The left no longer distinguishes between illegal aliens and those who come here legally.    All foreign nationals who enter are now described by the "Times" and others as  immigrants. And, if you use the term illegal alien, you are a bigot. Point 2:  The left believes that any fence on the southern border is nativist bigotry.  That is a hateful action towards non-Americans, especially Hispanics.    Point number 3: The left wants open borders. No restrictions on knows who come  here. No detention. No physical barrier. No deportation proceedings unless the  serious crime other than illegal entry is committed. And, if you disagree with  that you are promoting an anti-immigrant police state.    Point 4: The left says all immigrants again illegal and legal should be welcomed  and assimilated. And, not only that the government should give them money to  settle in and they should immediately be eligible for all the entitlements  Americans can secure.    Point 5: All illegal aliens already here should be put on a pathway to  citizenship. The left wants full amnesty. And, finally, point number 6: The left  wants free lawyers for all immigrants, so they can gather up the entitlements  and citizenship requirements. At the end of the editorial in the "New York  Times" the paper asks is that so radical?    The answer, of course, is yes. Open borders, full amnesty, complete entitlement  access is indeed radical and dangerous to public order and safety. But, that is  the vision of the Democratic Party. Not everyone, not everyone. But you will not  hear many democrats go up against that, as the Kate's law debate demonstrated.    Now, many believe this is a pure political strategy that flooding the nation  with foreigners, many of whom will get the right to vote strengthens the  Democratic Party. But there is much more in play. The radical left, immigration  vision, would profoundly change all of America's traditions, all of them, and  that is what the left wants.    Because that ideology sees the American Judeo-Christian tradition as oppressive,  exploitative and a white privilege legacy. Thus, the Uber left wants traditional  America wiped off the face of the earth. That is what is truly going on. And, if  Americans do not wise up quickly, the left wing vision of immigration may very  well become a reality.    And, that is the memo. Now, for the top story, reaction. Joining us from  Washington, two democrats, Simon Rosenberg and Jennice Fuentes. So, Jennice, am  I making any mistakes in my analysis? Be specific, please.   
JENNICE FUENTES, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: That is a very extreme right wing analysis.   
O'REILLY: OK. I am taking it right from the paper. These are the words they wrote. I did not change any of the words.   
FUENTES: I think --  
O'REILLY: I just put them on the screen.  
FUENTES: OK. Let us just look at history, because you chose to --  
O'REILLY: Whoa! Whoa! No, no, no. I do not want to look at history, Jennice.  
FUENTES: No, no.  
O'REILLY: I want to look at the "New York Times" --  
FUENTES: OK. No, but you used -- But, you choice to --  
O'REILLY: Are you saying this is not true?  
FUENTES: Yes. OK, but you used the word amnesty.  
O'REILLY: What?  
FUENTES: Let us start with amnesty because there is some points I did not take -- I do not have -- you do not want me looking down so I cannot look at the  points. But, let us look at amnesty. You mentioned the word amnesty, the last  time we had amnesty was under Ronald Reagan.   
O'REILLY: Yes.  
FUENTES: Republican President. A great president -- republican president, right? Amnesty back in the day, back there was you paid, you got your name down, and  you got your green card. This is what we are talking about -- Please, let us all  be clear, this is not amnesty.   
O'REILLY: So, what was attached to the Reagan amnesty, Jennice?  
FUENTES: Very little.  
O'REILLY: No.  
FUENTES: There was no background.  
O'REILLY: There was a promise that this would be the last one.  
FUENTES: There was no fingerprinting. There was no fine.  
O'REILLY: No, no, no, no.  
FUENTES: You did not have to pay a fine.  
O'REILLY: No. What was attached to the amnesty under President Reagan was, this will be the last time we will do it. We will secure the border. We are not going  to have any more of this and the government obviously let us down.   
FUENTES: True, and we did not secure it -- yes.  
O'REILLY: And, Mr. Rosenberg, did you see that I distorted this editorial as Jennice seems to think that I distorted it.       
FUENTES: You did not. I did not say you distorted it.  
O'REILLY: I did not distort anything. Here it is, right here.  
FUENTES: You were presenting it in the right wing approach.  
O'REILLY: Let Mr. Simon -- it is not a right wing anything. It is an analysis of what is on the paper. Mr. Rosenberg?       
SIMON ROSENBERG, PRESIDENT AND FOUNDER OF NDN: Bill, first of all, what is important to realize is that the "New York Times" has been very critical of the  Obama administration for its enforcement agenda.   
O'REILLY: Yes. They think they are too tough.  
ROSENBERG: They are too tough.  
O'REILLY: Right.  
ROSENBERG: So, first of all, I do not think that the sitting democratic president is not actually done the things the "New York Times" has said the  democrats should be doing. And, if you just take the border, right, just take  this one piece of it -- I mean, we do not believe in open borders. This  administration has not created open borders. In fact, we have deported more  people out of the United States than any president in American history.   
O'REILLY: That is because more people came across than any more time in American history.   
ROSENBERG: No, no, no, no. That is not true.  
O'REILLY: And, if you say fact -- and those deportations --  
ROSENBERG: Bill. Bill, that is not true.  
O'REILLY: -- do not count on the sheet.  
ROSENBERG: Bill, you and I talked about this before on your show is that is not true what you just said.   
O'REILLY: Yes, it is.  
ROSENBERG: Far more people came in during the Clinton and Bush years. Millions and millions and millions of people came in and settled here. Under Obama, the  undocumented population has not grown at all. We have gotten that under control.   
O'REILLY: That is because people left because the economy was so bad. You are distorting the border situation.   
ROSENBERG: No, that is not -- Bill, the unemployment rate has dropped in half --  
O'REILLY: All right.  
ROSENBERG: And we have not seen any increase in the undocumented immigrants in the United States. So, first of all --   
O'REILLY: But, in the beginning, in the first four or five years of the Obama administration, they went back because there were not any jobs. But, let us  look. This is not about President Obama. This is about an editorial that says  all of the points that I said.   
ROSENBERG: Yes.  
O'REILLY: This is an extreme view. And, I said not every democratic holds this opinion. And, I understand you do not, Mr. Rosenberg.   
ROSENBERG: Yes.  
O'REILLY: Is that true?  
ROSENBERG: I think the "New York Times'" opinions on immigration have been wrong again and again and again. I think they make mistakes.   
O'REILLY: Where are they going wrong?  
ROSENBERG: And, I think the characterization of and their prescriptions and some of the things they wrote in the editorial, I disagree with and so did this  administration.   
O'REILLY: All right.  
ROSENBERG: We have a democrat in the White House, right,.  
O'REILLY: We are looking ahead, Mr. Rosenberg.  
ROSENBERG: I understand. But, so, I want to agree something that was said earlier about let us just take amnesty, right? What we are -- Because it was  brought up earlier. What we are talking about, what the democrats have promoted,  the current set of democrats and what was the in the comprehensive immigration  reform Bill was not amnesty. It was go to the back of line, pay a fine. Go  through a background check. Learn English.   
O'REILLY: But that is amnesty, right here.  
ROSENBERG: No. It is not.  
O'REILY: This is.  
ROSENBERG: It is not amnesty, Bill.  
FUENTES: No. It is not.  
O'REILLY: Sure it is.  
FUENTES: No. It is not, Bill.  
O'REILLY: I will read you. You want me to read it to you.  
ROSENBERG: No, because we had amnesty in 1986. This is not amnesty.  
O'REILLY: Look. What the "New York Times" and they base on Bernie Sanders' proposal --   
ROSENBERG: Right.  
O'REILLY: Everybody would immediately have all of the rights of Americans and that is amnesty. Jennice, let me ask you this. Do you think that Judeo-Christian  tradition in America has been exploitive and has been, you know, as the "New  York Times" believes, a blight on the nation? Do you believe that?   
FUENTES: No. We are a diverse nation.  
O'REILLY: So, you do not believe that our traditions should be wiped out?  
FUENTES: Why would I believe that?  
O'REILLY: Because that is what the "New York Times" believes.  
FUENTES: Did I write that?  
O'REILLY: Look, if you have an open border as their proposing, you then flood the zone with millions and millions of people. And, all of our traditions go up  in smoke. There is no regulation under Bernie Sanders' plan at all and this is  what the "New York Times" has endorsed. None.   
FUENTES: Bill, our immigration tradition continues to be the same as it was 20, 30, and 40 years ago.   
O'REILLY: OK. I do not think you are understanding the forward vision that they are putting forth.   
FUENTES: No, but that vision is wrong. Our traditions are not threatened by immigration. And, I do not want any viewer thinking that because that would be  incorrect and it does not correct who we are.   
O'REILLY: Open borders threatens all of our traditions.  
FUENTES: Nobody is talking --  
O'REILLY: Jennice.  
FUENTES: I am not supportive of open borders, where people walk in and we do not know who they are.   
O'REILLY: They are. This editorial supports open borders. Mr. Rosenberg, I am giving you the same question, so wrap it up. Do you believe that our traditions  in America, which would be totally obliterated by an open border, anybody comes  here, which is what this is calling for, do you believe that they are wrong, our  traditions?   
ROSENBERG: So, first of all, many of the immigrants who have come into the United States over the last 50 years are Christian. And, So, particularly from  Latin America, many are catholic or have other -- protestants. And, so, the  Judeo-Christian tradition you are talking about has been reinforced and  strengthened by the immigration that we have had in the United States over the  last 50 years.   
O'REILLY: But, if you look at the amount of immigrant homes on welfare, which is at 50 percent, then I would have --   
ROSENBERG: So, Bill --  
O'REILLY: But, I have to go. It is a good debate. It is a good debate.  
ROSENBERG: Yes.  
FUENTES: We are not getting rid of the 11 million. We cannot deport them.      
O'REILLY: All right. There is more than that.  
FUENTES: So, let us be realistic at least about that.  
O'REILLY: This is calling for open borders.  
ROSENBERG: So, Bill, have us back. Have us back, Bill. Have us back.  
O'REILLY: All right.  
ROSENBERG: OK.  
FUENTES: We need more time.  
O'REILLY: Next on the rundown, Donald Trump says he will not debate on CNN, unless they pay him 5 million bucks. Take a look at that.    And, later, what is the truth about Muslims praising the 9/11 attack? Our Truth  Serum correspondents on the case up ahead.       
O'REILLY: And, in the Impact segment tonight, two controversial situations involving Donald Trump and Ben Carson. First, Mr. Trump.       
TRUMP: How about we do this with CNN. I will not do the debate unless they pay me $5 million, all of which money goes to the wounded warriors or go to vets. I  would love to do it.           
O'REILLY: Joining us now from Los Angeles, Leslie Marshall, here in New York City, Andrea Tantaros, co-host of "Outnumbered". So, do you think Trump is going  to stand by that statement?   
ANDREA TANTAROS, CO-HOST OF "OUTNUMBERED AT NOON" ON FNC: No.  
O'REILLY: No?  
TANTAROS: No, he has done this twice before.  
O'REILLY: Twice?  
TANTAROS: This is the third time.  
O'REILLY: Yes, uh-huh.  
TANTAROS: And, he showed up at the debate. It is a great PR tactic, because who would disagree with that, right?   
O'REILLY: Well, I am going to have him on the program tomorrow and then I am going to say, "Are you going to show up or not?" He is going to have to tell me,  yes or no. I mean, you know, he knows I am going to ask him about that.   
TANTAROS: And, he already walked it back, too. He said, "Well, I may show up, because then they are going to say I am chicken if I do not." So, he is already  back pedaling on it.   
O'REILLY: Really?  
TANTAROS: Yes.  
O'REILLY: OK. So, you think he says things like this, Mr. Trump, for what reason?   
TANTAROS: Earned media, and it worked. Who is going to argue with that? Our troops are not getting taken care of. And, he puts the pressure on CNN, one, to  do something good to help the troops and it shows that he supports the troops,  and, two, it highlights how much money he makes CNN because is he so great. So,  it helps the troops and Trump, his two favorite things.   
O'REILLY: OK. What do you say, Leslie.  
LESLIE MARSHALL, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I actually agree a lot with what Andrea said regarding Donald. This is not about Wounded Warriors, which is an excellent  organization. This is about Donald Trump. Bill, you know as well as everyone in  the world, because you reminds us almost daily how much money he, Donald Trump,  has that he could write a check for $5 million dollars tomorrow to Wounded  Warriors.    This is about him. How much money he thinks he makes for CNN and all of the  networks. What he thinks the ratings are this is all about him. And, so is this  tactic. He is not going to go through with it like Andrea said. This will be the  third time. That is a charm. He is going to do the same thing.   
O'REILLY: Is there any downside --  
MARSHALL: Of course is he is going to show up.  
O'REILLY: Is there any downside for any political candidate including Mr. Trump to say things and then not follow through on them? Any downside?   
MARSHALL: I do not think for Trump, it hurts him.  
O'REILLY: No. He can do anything.  
MARSHALL: When we just look at the polls among his people -- Yes!  
O'REILLY: He is impervious.  
MARSHALL: So far. So far.  
O'REILLY: All right.  
MARSHALL: But, I do think what it does is it hurts the process, Bill. Because, the people who are not set on a candidate, who are republicans or want to weigh  in on who that G.O.P. nominee should be should hear everyone's idea on the  economy, on foreign policy. And, that is what they are going to tune in to CNN  or any other network for, not just for the sound bites.   
O'REILLY: All right. But, if Trump does not show up then the debate does not get the rating that it might. OK. Ben Carson is having a little bit of problem last  few weeks. He weighs in on the accusations from the left that over the top  rhetoric against Planned Parenthood led to the shootings in Colorado Springs.  Roll the tape?       
BEN CARSON,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There is some pro-lifers, who will say things like I can understand why somebody might come in to, you know, an  abortion clinic and shoot it up. You know, that is kind of over the top.       
O'REILLY: Do you know any pro-life people, who said that? I mean in a position of responsibility. Of course, you got kooks, but I do not remember any pro-life  person that I have covered ever saying anything like that.   
TANTAROS: No, not one. I do not know where he is getting that one. No.  
O'REILLY: Do you know any Leslie? Do you know any pro-life people, head of organizations or, you know, anybody out there with a visible profile that has  ever said it is justified to kill people who are pro- abortion? Have you ever  heard anything like that?   
MARSHALL: I have never heard anybody, who you are saying is credible. But, Bill, when we look at the person who pulls the trigger, who is responsible for that  crime, I agree with you on that 100 percent.    However, when we look at like today, 1.8 million followers of the guy, who  started the Starbucks thing, who is saying we need to make doctors that perform  abortions very afraid. These are some of the areas that these people that  perhaps are not mentally stable are looking at --   
O'REILLY: The difference between various prey and talking about violence.  
MARSHALL: Yes.  
O'REILLY: So, I did not know if Dr. Carson was in good territory there unless he can name people. Because if he said it to me, I would have said, "Well, give me  a couple names, doctor, because what you are doing is demonizing a pro-life  movement that is generally peaceful and has been for decades."   
TANTAROS: No. I think it was really foolish of him. The pro-life movement is driven to persuade. Their rhetoric is based on reality, on cold hard truth.   
O'REILLY: But, there are kooks. There are people who go over it, over the line.  
TANTAROS: Occasionally -- that is true. There is a kook here and there.  
O'REILLY: Right.  
TANTAROS: There are kooky pastors here.  
O'REILLY: Right.  
TANTAROS: There is a guy, who shot at the Planned Parenthood Center. But, the pro-life movement has been peaceful. They lobby for legislation to educates.  And, you know what? They tweak the conscience of Americans. And, it is working  as you know --   
O'REILLY: Yes, right.  
TANTAROS: -- because polls do not support late-term abortions.  
O'REILLY: Overwhelmingly, and I think Leslie would agree. The pro- life lobby has conducted itself in a very professional manner. Last word, Leslie.   
MARSHALL: I do not disagree with that. What we are looking at is those that demonize. We are looking at frequency and we are looking at individuals that are  not necessarily believing facts but sound bites --   
O'REILLY: All right, but we cannot --  
MARSHALL: -- and some of those sound bites are demonizing.  
O'REILLY: -- you cannot really, you know, talk about nuts. And, when Dr. Carson comes back, we will ask him about it. Ladies, thanks very much.    Directly ahead, Donald Trump says he saw Muslims celebrating the 9/11 attacks in  Jersey. Now, we have been investigating that.    Also, police chief in Chicago fired by liberal Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Is the chief,  being made a scapegoat? Those reports after these messages.       
O'REILLY: Truth Serum Segment tonight, two very hot topics. Who is buying oil from ISIS, keeping the savages in business? Also, Donald Trump claiming he saw  some American Muslims celebrate the 9/11 attack.       
TRUMP: Hey, I watched when the World Trade Center came tumbling down. And, I watched in Jersey City, New Jersey, where thousands and thousands of people were  cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering.       
O'REILLY: Now, that statement by Mr. Trump has become very controversial. So, what are the facts? Joining us from Washington Shannon Bream, and here in New  York City, Eric Shawn, both Fox News Correspondents. OK. there were some Muslims  in America happy about the attacks. That has been established beyond a  reasonable doubt. Let us start there.   
ERIC SHAWN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR & SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Well, not thousands and thousands in one place as he said. Professor Earthan Kolajaof Felician  Universityin New Jersey studied this 10 years ago. He says, "Well, there  was not one place and there was no evidence of one large -scale demonstration.  What you are seeing there is what happened in Jerusalem and the Gaza.   
O'REILLY: Yes.  
SHAWN: So, maybe Donald Trump was mixing that up. But, he said there were maybe a half a dozen teenagers in Patterson, New Jersey. There have been people  through the years, who have said that they did see this. Courteously, with WABC,  he said he was getting phone calls that morning about this.   
O'REILLY: There were people in New Jersey according to the state police we have investigated, Muslims, who were happy about the 9/11 attack. But, they were not  vast numbers of them.   
SHAWN: No. Yes, I talked to Mayor Giuliani tonight about New York. He said maybe there were 12. And, he knows that because they were getting beaten up.   
O'REILLY: Yes, that was in New York City.  
SHAWN: That was in New York City.  
O'REILLY: Right.  
SHAWN: But, here is something that we found two days after 9/11. This is the "New York Post" September 13th. Trio who cheered attack face boot as illegal  aliens. Three men who celebrated as the twin towers crumbled are facing  deportation.    Witnesses saw them cheering and jumping up and down at liberty state park after  the attack and the FBI sent this out, Bill. It said, three individuals were seen  celebrating after initial impact and subsequent explosion.   
O'REILLY: OK. And, we must tell everybody that we tried at Mr. Trump's request to get video of any of the Jersey situations. All of the affiliated stations,  including New York one, the cable station here, they say they do not have any  video. And, if they did, they would have run it. I mean we do not have any.   
SHAWN: Yes. We have looked. Not only that, reporters and cameramen, you have you been on the streets for years.   
O'REILLY: Yes.  
SHAWN: You know, you would come out and say, "Yes, I covered that. I was there."  
O'REILLY: Yes, there was -- they said, there is no video of it, but I think, you are right when you said that he probably conflated a voiceover of Palestinians  celebrating with the local reporter saying, "We got some problems in Jersey."  Because, I think that probably happened.    All right, Mr. Trump again will be here tomorrow and we will run it by him. Now,  ISIS, in order for these killers to operate, they need money. And, they get the  money by selling oil from the oil fields that they have captured in IRAQ. We  want to know who is buying oil from the savages and Ms. Shannon Bream has that  information. Who is buying it, Shannon?   
SHANNON BREAM, FNC SUPREME COURT CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bill, it depends on who you ask, but it looks like what is happening is local traders are actually  showing up, fueling up in some areas. There is actually a month long wait at  these oil fields controlled by the rebels, where local traders will buy the oil  and then it is used in the rebel held areas.    But, the U.S. has now made allegations that Syria -- the government of Syria  itself may be buying some of this oil benefiting ISIS. But, there are now  allegations coming out of Russia. They believe that turkey is actually  facilitating this as well.   
O'REILLY: OK. So, what happens --  
BREAM: So, there could be some state actors.  
O'REILLY: You correct me if I am wrong, because you are the Truth Serum correspondent. So, guys with trucks show up at the oil fields, or the oil  refineries, because they have to refine the oil into gasoline. All right.    They load their trucks. They pay ISIS on the spot for the oil, whatever ISIS  charges them. They take the trucks, and they drive. And, you are saying they  drive three place, these are the allegations.    One in ISIS held areas where they sell to gasoline stations or power stations.  Two, to Assad's government, who got money and they need oil, so they buy from  them, and maybe Turkey. I have not heard the Turkey thing from the west. Putin  is accusing them of everything. You know that.   
BREAM: Yes. Right.  
O'REILLY: Do I have the story right?  
BREAM: You are exactly right. And, I will tell you that Turkey's President Erdogan, speaking in Paris where they are having as a climate gathering said  that, if this turns out to be true, he will actually resign his position. He  says, there is no way they are officially involved with it.   
O'REILLY: Yes, I tend to believe the Turks are not buying, because they hate ISIS. But, now, we are bombing those trucks, which we should have been doing a  long time ago, all right? But for some reason, President Obama would not allow  the trucks to be bombed, but now they are being bombed.    OK, thanks very much, you guys. We appreciate it. Plenty more ahead. As "The  Factor" moves along this evening, the man who blocked Jessica's Law in New York  City -- in New York State I should say, found guilty of massive corruption.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE REPORTER: What about Jessica's law? Are you going to enact?  
SHELDON SILVER, FORMER SPEAKER OF THE NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY: We have done that sir. We have done that. Tell Mr. O'Reilly, he is wrong.       
O'REILLY: Also head, Gutfeld and McGuirk on Tim Tebow getting hammered for his dating habits. Wait until you hear this. We hope you stay tuned for those  reports.       
O'REILLY: FACTOR "Follow-Up" segment tonight. Campus madness, a couple of examples from many. University of Vermont in Burlington, it was a three day  retreat so students could confront their white privilege status. Framingham  State University in Massachusetts complete chaos there because one student had a  confederate flag on his laptop.    Joining us now from Washington, Katie Pavlich, here in New York City, Kennedy,  host her own program on the FOX Business Network. Have confronted your white  privilege background?   
KENNEDY, FOX BUSINESS HOST, "KENNEDY": You are pointing at me. You are pointing at me.   
O'REILLY: I point to anybody.  
KENNEDY: You didn't even mention me the trigger warning before you ask me about my whiteness.   
O'REILLY: This is the magic finger right here. Once you point at someone, they become a star.   
KENNEDY: You're a Harry Potter and that is a macroaggression. I don't even know what it means to confront one's whiteness. I don't. Perhaps on the Rachel  Dolezal of Oswego, a very diverse community in the Portland area as you know.   
O'REILLY: Yes. Certainly you were raised in like Oswego, which was an affluent suburb --   
KENNEDY: Yes.  
O'REILLY: So, you have white privilege.  
KENNEDY: I don't know that I do. I have never cashed in on my white privilege.  
O'REILLY: You have never done that. Maybe unconsciously you have.  
KENNEDY: Unconsciously doesn't count. In the words of Sigmund Freud. Unconscious --   
O'REILLY: But the University of Vermont Katie, it counts, the white privilege three days. They didn't need one day. They needed three days to confront their  white privilege background.   
KATIE PAVLICH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: You know, Bill, to me especially in the northeast confronting my white privilege is going to the tanning salon. Don't  worry it's a spray tan, so it's not going to give me cancer hopefully. But look,  you know, we are talking about this white privilege issue and, yes, it's funny  and it's easy to laugh at. But I actually think it's quite racist and I think  what we have to talk about it in those terms.   
O'REILLY: Why is it racist? Why is white privilege racist? I mean, the other side says, if you are white you are racist just by the privilege you have.   
PAVLICH: You are being prejudiced towards people based on the color of their skin. And I reject this idea that only white people can be racist when white  students on these university campuses are now being ostracized for the color of  their skin. I mean, it's out of control. You have the University of Kansas. You  have students who aren't embracing the Black Lives Matter Movement so they are  being run out of student government.   
O'REILLY: Yes.  
PAVLICH: You have presidents of universities, their careers being ruined as a result of not going with the flow of what's, you know, politically correct, with  no evidence by the way. And it's anti-American. We're not allowed to have free  speech on these college campuses. They're pitting students against each other  based on race. I mean, it really is quite alarming.   
O'REILLY: It is pathetic, that's for sure. Now, in the Framingham State situation, some nutty kid, all right?   
KENNEDY: Yes.  
O'REILLY: Has a little sticker on his computer of the confederate flag. So, I mean, who cares? The kid is a nut. That's all.   
KENNEDY: He is a nut. He is an instigator. That's what you do when you are 18 or 19 years old. That's what college used to be for. It used to be four,  expression, taking risks, making some enemies and having fun. Do I think it's  funny? Would I have it on my computer? No.   
O'REILLY: Would it send you into analysis?  
KENNEDY: Well, no. That's exactly what they're doing.  
O'REILLY: Because they are framing him they are providing counseling. They are having counselors come in.   
KENNEDY: They're having counselling for people who might have been somehow affected by the bias incident. And I hope at some point, they start firing.   
O'REILLY: You know, but I think that's a good thing, Katie because the counsellors -- wait, hear me out, the counselors can maybe say look, forget  about the confederate flag thing. That's stupid. You being upset about, that's  what we want to talk about. What's the matter with you?   
PAVLICH: Yes. Well, Bill, this is the problem. And, you know, the administrators and the professors are wondering how this happened on college campuses because  they are eating their own. But the professors and the administrators have  created this monster through their diversity program. Through their tolerance  programs.   
O'REILLY: Cow tailing to insane --      
KENNEDY: Yes. There is safe -- she is absolutely right, there is safe spaces and they are actually making it a more dangerous environment because this is nothing  like the real world. And unfortunately college presidents are running these  institutions of learning like they are five star hotels.   
PAVLICH: Yep.  
O'REILLY: All right, ladies. Very interesting. When we come right back, "Is it Legal?" on the police chief in Chicago being fired. And the man who blocked  Jessica's law in New York State convicted of massive corruption. Legal is next.   
O'REILLY: Thanks for staying with us. I'm Bill O'Reilly in the "Is it Legal?" segment tonight. Three very controversial stories. We begin with Sheldon Silver,  for 21 years he was the most powerful Democrat in the New York State Assembly.  True villain. Silver did a number of awful things including blocking Jessica's  Law.       
JESSE WATTERS, O'REILLY FACTOR CORRESPONDENT: What about Jessica's law --  
SHELDON SILVER, FORMER SPEAKER OF THE NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY: We have done that, sir. We have done that. Tell Mr. O'Reilly, he's wrong.   
WATTERS: What I was concerned about was this Jessica's Law is say was passed, it's only a 10 year mandatory --   
SILVER: We passed Jessica's Law, sir.  
WATTERS: And there has to be four aggravating factors. We have multiple victims.  
SILVER: We passed Jessica's Law. The Senate passed Jessica's, the Governor signed Jessica's Law. Okay?       
O'REILLY: Not okay. Instead of 25 years mandatory, New York law says 10. And it's full of loopholes. But now Sheldon Silver has been convicted of seven  counts of massive corruption.    Here to tell us about it, attorneys and FOX News analysts Kimberly Guilfoyle and  Lis Wiehl. So, what did he do, Wiehl?   
LIS WIEHL, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: He took $4 million in bribery and kickbacks. Specifically he gave money to one professor at Columbia, about 500,000 to funnel  money to this professor for research. He said, the professor then used a law  firm that Silver was with, gave clients of that law firm, you know, money to  that law firm. The law firm then was the middle person giving Silver all this  money.   
O'REILLY: All right. So, Silver directs $500,000, this is just one, one example, $500,000 of taxpayer money, all right, to a Columbia university professor.   
WIEHL: Correct. For research.  
O'REILLY: Who then does business with Silver's law firm --  
WIEHL: Correct.  
O'REILLY: -- of which he is a partner.       Right. And the money comes back in to Silver's pocket, is that about it?   
KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: That's absolutely correct. And when you think about those seven counts, I mean, they just swept him on this. He went  down on everything. He is looking at approximately 130 years. He is 71 years of  age. But this is sending a strong message about corruption. And you look at the  variety of charges. Extortion under color of right, monetary transactions  involving criminal proceeds. Very bad. Honest services, wire fraud. A number of  counts of that.   
O'REILLY: Right. Because all he did.  
GUILFOYLE: This has gone on for years.  
O'REILLY: So, this guy, and he is 21, he is probably -- he is 21 --  
GUILFOYLE: Seventy one.  
O'REILLY: Seventy one. He is going to get 20. I think that's what they are going to give him.   
WIEHL: He will spend the rest of his life in jail.  
O'REILLY: You think so?  
WIEHL: Yes.  
O'REILLY: All right. No parole? Because you are in the federal system.  
WIEHL: Exactly.  
O'REILLY: And the U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, that's the thing? Excellent job by the way.   
GUILFOYLE: Absolutely.  
O'REILLY: Excellent job. Because not only was this guy the most powerful democrat in the state, all right.   
GUILFOYLE: Yes.  
O'REILLY: Beside the governor, Skelos, the most powerful republican senator, he is indicted too. So what does this tell you about New York State?   
GUILFOYLE: Well, it tells you that there is corruption.  
O'REILLY: Everywhere.  
GUILFOYLE: People will.  
O'REILLY: Everywhere.  
GUILFOYLE: People will be held accountable.       Bur tight now, Bill. He is out. He is free on bail and there will be an appeal  but I do not feel that it will be overturned.   
O'REILLY: It took the jury 35 seconds to convict him. All right. Chicago, the police chief gets fired today by Rahm Emanuel. Because Chicago is pretty much  out of control in the minority precincts. But overall Scott McCarthy who came  from New York City, who was an NYPD guy at one time. What kind of job did he do  generally speaking Guilfoyle?   
GUILFOYLE: Well, this is very interesting. Because you have to dig into the facts here to look at the record. And some might say it was a mixed review.  However beginning with first full year in office in 2012. Crime actually  steadily went down under Mr. McCarthy. And you saw that there was a decrease in  murders, et cetera, up until this year in 2015.   
O'REILLY: Yes, sure they are. But all of the murderers anywhere centered in south side of Chicago in certain neighborhoods where drug gangs --   
WIEHL: It's not as if it's gone crazy.  
O'REILLY: No, it's not on the miracle mile.  
WIEHL: Right.  
O'REILLY: It's not on Rough Street.  
WIEHL: Right.  
O'REILLY: It's not in the North of Chicago, it's not south where the ghettos are. But that was my beef is that they let this happen every weekend and, you  know --   
GUILFOYLE: But now he is the fall guy for it, right? Because of the video and the outrage.   
O'REILLY: Right. And the guy who got killed --  
GUILFOYLE: Keep in mind, he works for the mayor. The mayor fired him. The mayor had already seen the video. Why didn't the mayor release the video to begin  with?   
WIEHL: The mayor not always -- the city settled a $5 million dollar lawsuit on this right before he was going to actually Rahm Emanuel was.   
O'REILLY: Look, look, anybody who has watched this video tape and this stone kid gets shot 16 times, he had a knife that's far away. You know, look.   
GUILFOYLE: Shot from behind.  
O'REILLY: Look, but you don't fire a police chief over one bad cop.  
GUILFOYLE: Right. But he also praised him. He said, the mayor's praised McCarthy's leadership in the force that calls it undeniable fact that the  public's trust in the police had eroded. That's it.   
O'REILLY: Right. Look, I love Chicago. But you guys got to wise up there and vote better people into office than this. All right. Another guy jumps over the  White House fence?   
WIEHL: Another guy.  
O'REILLY: Twenty two-year-old Joseph Caputo.  
WIEHL: Right.  
O'REILLY: What I want to know about this is, look, there is the idiot. And there was another guy Omar Gonzalez a few months ago. What did Omar Gonzalez get for  jumping over the fence?   
WIEHL: Seventeen months in federal court. Because he got further than this kid got. He actually got in --   
O'REILLY: He got into the doorway.  
GUILFOYLE: And he pushed --  
WIEHL: And he -- first guy actually pushed the secret service officer, I think he pushed her down. So, he got more time.   
O'REILLY: Seventeen months Omar serving? Right?  
WIEHL: Well, yes. Serving. He will get out at the end of next year. He'll get 15 months, you know, in federal prison.   
O'REILLY: Right.  
WIEHL: I don't think this guy is going to get that much. He was, you know, he is --   
O'REILLY: I would give the guy two years.  
GUILFOYLE: He has mental health issues. His attorney says he has Asperger's, he was carrying a weapon --   
O'REILLY: Okay. Why do we want him running around for? Give him two years in prison.   
GUILFOYLE: I don't know. But he clears the spite.  
O'REILLY: Can't be hopping the fence at the White House.  
O'REILLY: Got to be doing a better job.  
O'REILLY: Should be a big sign, hop the fence you get five years in jail? I don't think if you have hamburger or whatever. You get five years.   
GUILFOYLE: Yes.  
O'REILLY: All right. Ladies, thank you.   Gutfeld, McGuirk on deck, why is the media torturing Tim Tebow over his social  life. The boys moments away.   
O'REILLY: "Back of the Book" segment tonight. "What The Heck Just Happened?" We begin with President Obama comparing the pilgrims to Syrian refugees.       
PRES. BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES: Nearly four centuries after the Mayflower set sail, the world is still full of pilgrims. Men and women who want nothing  more than the chance for a safer better future for themselves and their  families. What makes America America is that we offer that chance. We turn lady  liberty's light to the world and widen our circle of concern to say that all  God's children are worthy of our compassion and care.       
O'REILLY: Here now Gutfeld and McGuirk. Make you cry. You know, very heartfelt, but you know totally ignoring the realities of the situation that people in  Syria, by and large are good but there are some bad people. And you got to be  very careful.   
GREG GUTFELD, HOST, "THE GREG GUTFELD SHOW": So, he is comparing pilgrims to the Syrians. That's an insult from the Left. Because aren't pilgrims genocidal  maniacs that destroyed the Indian population?   
O'REILLY:  
GUTFELD: Yes. So, he actually insulted the Syrian refugees. But the point is, his logic is flawed because it's like, if you were to buy a product that will --  that was contaminated, small percentage, you would have it recalled.   
O'REILLY: Uh-hm.  
GUTFELD: So, that's the same thing with the refugee crisis. It's even if it was a tiny percentage. You have to be careful.   
O'REILLY: You have to be careful. But I have to correct the pilgrims really didn't slaughter the Indians.   
GUTFELD: No. But that's the Left wing ideology. They tried to get, you know, bond with them a little. Because there were many food in the Indian's desk. That  was a smart move.   
BERNARD MCGUIRK, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER, "IMUS IN THE MORNING": The difference is they were actually pioneers. And they actually fought the Indians.   
O'REILLY: Sometimes.  
MCGUIRK: Right. They fought with them for their own safety. And, you know, they fought for what they've got. They fought. Now the Syrian refugees are actually  -- they are fleeing a civil war instead of staying there and fighting for their  own, whatever that --   
O'REILLY: Yes. The kids and women can't do that. I just think that the President is exploiting our history in a way that's totally out of context.   
GUTFELD: He's turning the war on terror into a war on immigration, which is basically like saying firefighting is an attack on buildings.   
O'REILLY: Yes. I mean, you know, you can make a case, a very heartfelt case that we should take every single suffering child, all right, woman in -- in the world  and bring them here. You can make that case.   
MCGUIRK: Well, look, Greg, he may have stumbled on to something. Obama -- Greg said that what he said last Columbus Day, Obama said that pilgrims introduced  devastation violence into the lives of indigenous people. He said that last  month.   
O'REILLY: Yes. But the Spanish were totally different than the English.  
MCGUIRK: But that's kind of like what happened in Paris and with the Tsarnaev brothers in Boston. So, maybe he stumbled on to something by accident.   
O'REILLY: All right. There's a way do all this without polarizing the whole country. Of course, Washington -- but there is a way. Okay, now. This story  bothered me. I don't know Tim Tebow. I think I met him once. And he seems to be  a nice guy. But he is a traditional guy, a religious guy. And now the tabloid  papers are smearing him because they don't like his dating habits. Now, it all  has to do with a woman named Olivia Culpo, Miss Universe 2012 who we had  actually had here on THE FACTOR, because she herself is very conservative. And  is anti-drug, anti- intoxicants. All of that. Roll the tape.       
O'REILLY: Intoxication is not for you, right? Intoxication, getting drunk, not for you?   
OLIVIA CULPO, MISS UNIVERSE 2012: It's not definitely not for me during this job. Well, I'm an international role model especially in this country where it  is -- there's a drinking age. I need to respect that, especially not only as a  citizen of this country but as a role model.       
O'REILLY: All right. Now, they said that Tebow was going out with her and they broke up because Tebow wouldn't have sex with Miss Culpo. And it turns out to be  totally bogus.   
MCGUIRK: According to TMZ, they did say it was bogus. But still that didn't stop publications like "The Daily News" from printing some really nasty --   
O'REILLY: Nasty, snarky, garbage.  
MCGUIRK: Yes. Like a Tim Tebow still can't find the end zone. His girlfriend breaks it off over lack of sex.   
O'REILLY: Right. Right. They think they're really cute over there, you know? I mean --   
MCGUIRK: Left wing of a media bullies is what they are. They said they celebrate courageous drug sniffing pervert Charlie Sheen for coming out with HIV. You  know, that's a big accomplishment. Maybe 30 years ago, that would have been  courageous. What he's doing is courageous in this day and age which, you know,  celebrating --   
O'REILLY: Well, I think Tebow's private life should be left alone. But even "Sports Illustrated" -- "Sports Illustrated" cheap shots him.   
GUTFELD: It's terrible, you know, and it's very, very tough for her. After our ugly breakup and now this.   
O'REILLY: You and Olivia?  
GUTFELD: Yes. She's doing great though. She's staying at my place until she's strong enough to move on. But I have always been there for Olivia. And I just  think what's happening to her is an injustice that must stop. Can we please show  more pictures of her during this disturbing segment? I think -- can we roll  more?   
O'REILLY: All right. So, it's clear you thought a lot about this Tim Tebow situation. You have analyzed it very, very well.   
GUTFELD: I think it's a touching moving story that has changed my life.  
O'REILLY: All right. And you know, she's a little like the pilgrim woman.  
GUTFELD: Yes.  
O'REILLY: Okay, guys.  
MCGUIRK: Very strong.  
O'REILLY: Gentlemen, FACTOR "Tip of the Day," it's a special Tuesday. But you might not know why. We will tell you in the tip moments away.   
O'REILLY: FACTOR "Tip of the Day." Why is today special in a moment. But first, the No Spin elves want you. BillO'Reilly.com personal story for business, we  have amazing gifts for you. Look at all those things. Including historical  parchments that you can frame up. Also, we want to give you a special gift for  Christmas and Hanukah. If you spend 40 bucks or more on BillO'Reilly.com, you  get a free bumper sticker that reads, think about your country. Very worthy  message.    Finally, "Killing Jesus" has reached France. Book title says "Jesus The Last  Days" with a subtitle, more than two million copies sold. Right now the Killing  books are in 23 languages around the world. They make terrific holiday gifts.  And please don't forget about the kids. "Hitler's Last Days," "Lincoln's Last  Days," things like that. Great for the urchins. Get them off the machines.    Now, the mail.    Doug Evans, Columbus, Ohio. "Bill, you criticize the liberal media for releasing  pictures of Abu Ghraib. Now you say you are so merely reporting the truth about  Planned Parenthood and Dr. Tiller shouldn't be blamed for inciting violence.  What's the difference?"    Americans were fighting in Iraq at the time, Doug. You may remember. They were  under fire there. You don't provoke more danger for troops in the field. I  reported the Abu Ghraib's story but didn't exploit it by over using the shocking  images.    J.C. Henderson, Rochester, New York. "Bill, it sounded like you and Dr. Goolsbee  were implying that you have to be mentally ill to murder someone. There is  something called evil."    Mental illness does not excuse destructive behavior, only true insanity, which  is rare, does that. Evil often resides in people who have personality disorders.    Steve Murrow, Murrells Inlet, South Carolina. "O'Reilly, I wish you had asked  Goolsbee if the murders of police officers around the country were inspired by  anti-cop rhetoric from the Left."    Didn't have to ask him that, Steve. The doctor agreed with me that felonious  individuals are responsible for their own behavior. No one else.    Ed Perucci, Kalamazoo, Michigan. "Bill, you were out of line saying the Chicago  police allows mass murder to occur. They are doing what they can in war zone."    It's not good enough, Ed. It's not good enough. There were war zones here in New  York City. And the NYPD largely neutralized them under Giuliani and Bloomberg.  There's a big problem in Chicago.    Danny Woodward, London, England. "O'Reilly, do you think the commander-in-chief  of the Armed Forces should be a military person to avoid politics?"    No, Danny, I don't. The founders feared the military could become too strong and  unaccountable. So, so the instituted civilian control under the President. Not  perfect but it has worked.    Anne Rogers, Bedford, Virginia. "Killing Reagan had me in tears. My husband a  World War II vet was handicapped for 13 years before he died. The book's  dedication meant a great deal to me."    Thanks, Anne. I dedicated "Killing Reagan" to all of those caring for an elderly  or disabled person. That's because of what Nancy Reagan did for the President in  his last years.    And finally tonight, the FACTOR "Tip of the Day," it's Tuesday but not just an  ordinary Tuesday. For the fourth consecutive year, the 92nd street y in New York  City has designated this day giving Tuesday. The motivation is for you to be  generous this Christmas and Hanukah season. Now here's the FACTOR "Tip of the  Day." Make a list, not of gifts you want, but of gifts you want to give,  especially donations to charities you trust. I did that over the weekend. Made  the list. I'm going to execute it this week. Giving definitely better for the  soul than receiving.    And that's it for us tonight. Please check out the FOX News FACTOR website which  is different from BillO'Reilly.com. Also, we'd like you to spout off about THE  FACTOR from anywhere in the world. O'Reilly@FOXNews.com O'Reilly@FOXNews.com  Name and town if you wish to opine. Word of the day, let's see some comity. Not  comedy. Comity. When writing to THE FACTOR. Trump tomorrow.    Again, thanks for watching us tonight. Miss Megyn is next. I am Bill O'Reilly,  please always remember the spin stops right here because we are definitely  looking out for you.   
