  
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: This is a Fox News alert. I'm Bret Baier in Washington for SPECIAL REPORT with breaking news at this hour.    They came prepared, dressed in tactical gear, armed with long guns -- that, from  the police chief in San Bernardino, California. We're awaiting any moment a news  conference there from local officials. We'll take you there as soon as it  begins.    Up to three men, witnesses say they wore masks, bursting into a social services  center shortly after 11 a.m. local time where county employees were holding a  holiday lunch. At least 14 dead, at least 14 wounded and the suspects are still  on the loose at this hour; law enforcement actively hunting for these killers.    The motive -- authorities say they don't know. Is it terrorism? The FBI says we  can't say that yet. The police chief says it's definitely at least domestic  terrorism. What we do know, this was an organized attack. And the police chief  also said they came as if they were on a mission.    Chief correspondent Jonathan Hunt is on the scene in San Bernardino. Jonathan,  we're awaiting that news conference just over your shoulder.   
JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CHIEF CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret. We are some four hours into this incident unfolding right now. And the bold truth is this: at least  three shooters went into that inland regional center, killed at least 14,  injured at least 14 more and disappeared into thin air.    If the San Bernardino Police Department and other law enforcement agencies are  telling us all they know, then they simply don't know very much. And most  importantly of all, they don't know where these shooters are. There are reports  that they fled the scene in what is being termed by police as a dark SUV.    Did that go north on the 15 freeway towards Las Vegas? Did it go east on the 10  freeway toward Phoenix? Have they made use of the nearby Ontario airport? All  the answers to those questions are that the police at this stage do not seem to  have any idea.    As for the motive here, this was an inland regional center, used to help people  with educational and developmental disabilities. But there was a second  conference room in Building 3 of that campus. That conference room was rented  out today to an outside group that may have been staging a holiday party for  county personnel.    What department of the county were those personnel from? Again we are not clear.  There have been reports they were from the health department. But county  personnel could cover anything obviously from law enforcement to health to  social services -- pretty much anything.    So we know very little at this stage, except that there has been carnage in San  Bernardino -- as I say, at least 14 killed, at least 14 injured. They are for  the majority at two nearby medical centers, Arrowhead Medical Center and Loma  Linda. There has been a heavy police presence at Loma Linda in particular. That  may be to do simply with interviewing some of those survivors.    We've seen from our location right here, Bret, four to five school buses loaded  with people who came from in or around the regional center where the shooting  took place. They have been taken as we understand it, to a nearby church.  They're being interviewed as witnesses by law enforcement there.    We know from some of those who have spoken publicly that they say there were at  least three shooters. They were all dressed in black. They were wearing masks.  Beyond that we have no more description of them and as I have said we have no  idea of the motive at this point -- Bret.   
BAIER: Jonathan Hunt there on the scene. We are in desperate information -- need for information and you're looking live as they set up for this news conference  that should be any moment, we're told sometime toward the top of the hour. And  we will take you there live as law enforcement continues to hunt for what they  believe to be three suspects armed, very dangerous, wearing armor, some kind of  tactical gear and they leaving the scene in a dark SUV.    Let's get a law enforcement perspective now. Rod Wheeler was a homicide  detective here in Washington, D.C. and Ron Hosko is a former FBI assistant  director crisis management lead. Gentlemen -- thank you.    Ron let me start with you. At this moment what is law enforcement trying to do  the fact that they don't have or they haven't told us anything about knowing  where these guys went.   
RON HOSKO, FORMER FBI ASST. DIRECTOR: Right, this is a dead sprint by law enforcement to debrief witnesses, have the greatest possible understanding of  who was in that room so you have an understanding of victimology. Were they  coming for specific targets? Why these targets?    Looking back in time at this group, county employees, to see if there were  threats conveyed against them -- specific parts of local government, looking at  social media, interviews, working the forensics, as quickly as they can on the  weapons and pulling as much as they can cameras from the scene and try to put  that together and understand where we're going next.   
BAIER: And Rod, you know, authorities said at the beginning they would only say long guns.   
ROD WHEELER, FORMER HOMICIDE DETECTIVE: Right.  
BAIER: There were witnesses who described AK-47 like weapons.  
WHEELER: Obviously an AR-15 would look like that but this was planned, this was organized.   
WHEELER: Oh yes -- very planned, very well organized. As a matter of fact, Bret, I would even submit to you that these individuals, whoever they may be -- and  we'll find out eventually who they are -- they came there with a mission that  they wanted to do, to fulfill. They fulfilled that mission.    Part of their plan though and this is so interesting was their getaway escape,  their escape route. And that's why it's very difficult right now for law  enforcement to find these folks. Now, law enforcement don't know if these people  made it to the Orange County Airport or Ontario Airport. Maybe they got on the  plane. There have been some reports that there was a black SUV was spotted.    Did they get into another vehicle and continue on their escape? We don't know  any of that right now and that's why, Bret, the FBI as well as ATF and a number  of other agencies are actively involved in this investigation right now.   
BAIER: And Ron, they can't say terrorism, they can't say motive here. But they can say that this is a really dangerous situation for this particular community  right now.   
HOSKO: I think this is incredibly dangerous. This is a very different than a typical active shooter where 60 percent of them are concluded as law enforcement  is arriving at the scene or has just arrived at the scene.    The idea that three -- as many as three offenders could get away, you have to be  working with the expectation that they're going to plan the next one and strike  again.   
BAIER: They talked about, Ron, all of the coordination between the different law enforcement agencies responding. Is the FBI assisting that or they kind of  umbrella over it?   
HOSKO: Typically the FBI is coming in to assist, to look at are there other targets? Is there a broader plot? Is it terrorism? So by and large, the FBI  comes in, in support of state and local law enforcement, the lead local agency.    This is a different type of event. And I -- it was good to see my friend Dave  Bowditch, the assistant director out there on the scene. Think you're going to  see a bigger FBI footprint in this one, greater involvement. Reach back to FBI  headquarters to be extracting every bit of intelligence that the FBI has in its  holdings.   
BAIER: Let me bring in someone else, insight from Matt Graham, he's a SWAT officer instructor at Graham Combat. He joins us on the phone. Matt your  assessment of this as you'd watched it unfold this afternoon. What's the  challenge for law enforcement at this moment?   
MATT GRAHAM, SWAT INSTRUCTOR, GRAHAM COMBAT: Well, my assessment of this is regardless of whether it's domestic or terrorism, it's all terrorism.  with this stuff, Bret, the goal of terrorism is to terrorize and  we're seeing that play out here.    When we have three actors in this that compounds things significantly, so  instead of just one individual that we're now having to track we have three. And  if they've either gone to ground locally or if they're on foot and fleeing and  on foot meaning vehicle-based or just mobile it's exponentially a greater issue.   
BAIER: And what are you doing. You know, you're looking for any tidbit of where they may have gone. There was a report of an abandoned SUV, Tahoein San  Bernardino. We haven't gotten any information on that and again we're waiting  for this news conference that we'll bring to you live.    But you're just looking for any scrap that could take you to where they may have  been headed.   
GRAHAM: Absolutely. And that's one of the great pieces that you're going to get with the FBI coming on board is their manpower ability is again in the same as  this terror act is exponential. They have hundreds and hundreds of FBI agents  that can now saturate the area and start looking for. Regardless of how you got  to the location, you had to drive by a gas station, a bank, an intersection that  had a camera. So they're able to start to cultivate that data and exploit that  data and begin to unravel what's going on here.   
BAIER: Rod, back here in studio, somebody had to see something that helps them piece together this puzzle.   
WHEELER: That's right.  
BAIER: Or hear something.  
WHEELER: Absolutely. That's why there's a number of police officers that's just been reported by Jonathan Hunt that has just arrived at the hospital. And the  reason is because they need to start interviewing those witnesses, the  survivors, as quickly as possible so that they can start putting the pieces  together in terms of what everybody saw.    You know, did they recognize the person? Did the shooters, did they say  anything? So far it hasn't been reported that they said anything which I find  kind of interesting. Because typically if it's a terrorist activity or a  terrorist attack, they're going holler out "allah akbar" or something. So far  Bret, we haven't heard any of that.   
BAIER: Again Ron, the motive for going after a social services center that helps mainly disabled men and women and children, and a holiday lunch that's for a  county health department, it doesn't seem like it adds up.   
HOSKO: It doesn't seem like it adds up --  
BAIER: Three guys, let alone one guy.  
HOSKO: But for the fact that America is dotted with soft targets, and here are two soft targets. There were probably other soft targets in the vicinity. So the  question is why this particular soft target? Did somebody have a grudge? Is  there something lurking? Is it a terminated employee with some friends? Is it  focused on one and everybody else becomes a victim because you happen to be in  the room?    It is critically important and Rod is talking about this, you have dozens if not  hundreds of police officers speeding to this scene with the expectation of  getting in a gunfight with an active shooter or multiple active shooters. And  now law enforcement has to hit the brakes, and pull back into this investigative  mode where they are scouring the victims in the hospital, people at the scene,  and trying to extract every tidbit of information that leads us to these  targets.   
BAIER: Rod, what are you telling the population in San Bernardino at this moment?   
WHEELER: Right now I think they definitely need to be on high alert. This is a very, very dangerous, volatile situation. And until these individuals are  identified and captured. I think that area out there is going to definitely be  under --       
BAIER: We are getting some breaking news here: active pursuit of a suspicious vehicle. Our Adam Housley is out in California with the latest on this. Adam --  bring us up to date.   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret -- in fact this just happened in last minute or so. We're here right by the where basically the entire operations  center is taking place right over my shoulder. And beyond that is where the  shooting took place, the officers tore out of here a minute or so ago and I was  just texted by an individual I'm close with in the middle of this investigation  saying that they're in pursuit right now of a dark SUV east of the city.    It doesn't mean it's the one involved. We have to obviously be very careful in  that situation. But you can hear the sirens possibly in the background. There  goes a police officer on a motorcycle right now.    You're seeing a lot of movement here. We haven't seen a lot of movement in the  last hour and a half other than more people showing up. Here comes actually one  of the police military vehicles -- you're going to see come through here in a  second. I can see it. Here it comes down the street right now in San Bernardino.    You can see some of the SWAT officers on the outside. We know of at least two  SWAT teams that are here, including a full FBI contingent as well. And from  where we're located right now, that takes place Bret, there's I don't know if  we're going to be able to get a helicopter shot because the helicopters for the  news media have been told to stay back because of this ongoing situation.    But I can tell you from where I'm standing, I talked to a neighbor right here  next to who doesn't want to go on camera, who said he heard what he thought was  automatic gunfire about four hours when this went down.    We're the closest you're going to get right now outside of law enforcement. I  want to show you one more thing. Here comes another SWAT vehicle through right  now. This is where the operations are coming from and the command post once  again is here along with federal, state and local authorities, DOJ is here as  well -- all really emanating from here.    You're seeing guys with guns over here and if you go to our right, Lance, you  can see guys with guns running to their cars as well. Obviously this is  something they're taking very seriously.    At this location also, Bret, about an hour ago, a man walked up. They thought he  was suspicious. I'm going to step away so you can see more of this action take  place. A man walked up and he looked suspicious, at least to law enforcement.  Seven officers came over here with guns drawn, took him aside. That's the  situation we're going with right now.    And we were told by law enforcement. They're having to go with the impression  that they're looking for three men with automatic weapons and full military  outfits -- meaning they have armor on. That's what they believe they're going  after. Whether that's true or not we won't know, of course, until this all plays  out but they have to go with that being the possibility or the situation right  now.    So Bret, we'll keep you updated but you can tell things are very fluid here. We  do know this chase is continuing. I have not yet gotten another note. Let me  see, I do have another note coming in.   
BAIER: We've got some aerials no.  
HOUSLEY: We do have aerials -- good.   We are getting reports that there was a chase of a pick-up truck and then an  SUV. We see one car in the middle -- it looks like a dark SUV in the middle of  the road there. This is not far from where you are -- is that right, Adam?   
HOUSLEY: No. That's right, in fact, to give people an idea where we're located, we're directly east of downtown Los Angeles, a good hour drive or so. Two main  freeways cross here, almost like a cross if you will. We're not far from either  of them and there are a lot of roads around here that lead to a lot of places,  frankly.    I mean you can get to the mountains, you can get to the desert, you can get to  anywhere. But the fact that this is taking place -- in fact, I see another  helicopter taking off. I'm going to step away, Lance. It's not far from us at  all but obviously out of the reach of our camera to see where this is taking  place.    But you can see all of a sudden in a matter of literally a second the officers  tore out of here, went towards those locations. You mentioned, Bret, two cars,  I'm now being told also two cars, a truck and an SUV. The SUV was the one we  were tipped off about first.    Again, it doesn't mean these are the people involved. This is the situation we  have here right now in San Bernardino, really very, very fluid.   
BAIER: Ok. Well Adam -- thank you. We'll head back as soon as we get some more information. Trace Gallagher is in our West Coast newsroom. He may have some  more information about the breaking story that we're seeing now and this police  action -- Trace.   
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret, this is in south San Bernardino. What happened here is there were scanner shots fired in this case.  And we're being told on scanner traffic that one person is down here. This was a  chase that lasted for several miles that had the California Highway Patrol as  well as the San Bernardino police involved in this thing and the sheriff.    This thing went on and then one person apparently got out of the car and was  tackled by four police officers and then there were reports shot being fired out  the back window toward police and apparently police have now returned fire.    We don't know, but you can see right there, clearly there is gunfire out of all  windows, police on all sides and we now know that one person is down.    If you go back earlier, Bret, you have to remember, it was initially said to be  a black Yukon that they were looking for. We don't know what this car is right  now. But it appears not to be a Yukon. This, this car might have had Utah plates  according to scanner traffic but they were wanted inside men. One of them got  out. And then they opened fire and then apparently police have returned fire  because all the windows in this case are blasted out.    They have just called for a gurney and ambulances. We don't know if any police  were hit when the suspects or suspect inside the car opened fire. But clearly,  they were firing from both sides and now at least one person is down. But again,  we do not know if this is connected with the shooting earlier in San Bernardino  that happened some four hours and 15 minutes ago but an awfully big coincidence,  if it's not -- Bret.   
BAIER: Yes. We're looking live here on the street there and you see the SUV in the middle. It does look as you said, gun-riddled and there are police officers  staging right outside there. We are on a delay here just for everyone to know.  And we will monitor this situation as it develops as you see the news helicopter  pulling out a bit.    Joining me on the phone again, Matt Graham, who has experience with SWAT units  and obviously surrounding dangerous situations like this. At this moment, what's  going on -- Matt? And what -- what do you see and how they're staging this?   
GRAHAM: Well, what's going on here is they're working everything to restrict the mobility of what's going on. Once the vehicle is stopped, you have to restrict  the mobility of those people inside the vehicle and the vehicle itself.    So what you don't want to do, it's the basic containment issue. You want to  contain that event and make sure that the vehicle itself or the people in that  vehicle don't again become mobile whether it be getting into other vehicles or  getting out and just fleeing on foot.    It appears as though obviously there's been an exchange of gunfire back and  forth which puts it in the advantage of law enforcement in that response due to  the sheer numbers of people that they have there.   
BAIER: Back here in studio, Ron Hosko, is it surprising that this is this close to the site if this in fact is these guys?   
HOSKO: It is surprising. But you have to consider every possible scenario. Could these guys have put down somewhere, waited for a little bit of police, you know,  to pass by en route to the scene? Thought they were good to go and then decided  they were going to leave that area?    And you're dealing with a situation here where the police are hyper- vigilant  and the offenders, the subjects are hyper-vigilant, too. And if these offenders  saw a police car turn around and start to come up behind them it could be that  they decided hey we're going to shoot right now and try to make our break at  this point rather than just be calm and hope that that police officer goes by.   
BAIER: Ok. Rod -- I'm not seeing any activity in this SUV. I'm seeing a lot of staging on the other side. Your sense of what's going down here?   
WHEELER: Well, the main thing the police are trying to determine now is whether or not there's any booby-traps associated with that vehicle. That's why they're  not running up to the vehicle, even though it appears as though who was ever  inside the vehicle has been disabled.    They need to make sure, they're going to probably bring in the bomb squad to  walk up to that vehicle and maybe even send in a robot or something like that  because oftentimes in these situations there's a back- up plan by the bad guys.  In this case maybe they have that vehicle wired or something so as soon as law  enforcement gets there, it blows up. We don't know. And that's why again you  don't see law enforcement just running up to the vehicle -- Bret.   
BAIER: Yes.  
HOSKO: And there was just movement in the front seat too. There was something moving in the front seat.   
BAIER: Trace Gallagher monitoring all the traffic in law enforcement. Trace -- anything else?   
GALLAGHER: Yes just to give you an idea, Bret. We do believe that there is still one person inside the car and now at least one person on foot running away. And  we're being told from police they're calling for medical aid because they  believe an officer has been hit and is down.    So now you have an officer down, at least one of the suspects -- again, unclear  if this is one of the suspects from the earlier shooting -- one of the suspects  down. Another suspect appears to be inside the car. And what they're moving  towards that car or will be soon is something called the bearcat. That's kind of  a barricade --   
BAIER: We're seeing -- seeing that now.  
GALLAGHER: -- car, vehicle if you will, yes. So the bearcat is moving up there, trying to see if this other suspect is wounded or incapacitated. And they're in  a different scene that you can't see on the helicopter, Bret. They're looking  for a man who is now running away from the scene.    They have asked for urgent medical help and a police escort for the bearcat  because apparently one suspect is still alive inside the car. One is down. One  is on the run.    We knew there were at least three. There might have been more. We earlier saw  another suspect being converged on by police. Is there four? Are there four  suspects? That's unclear right now. Clearly there are three suspects that have  been or were inside this car.   
BAIER: Yes. And we should point out -- we're waiting for a news conference obviously at the top of the hour. It did not happen because things were  happening quickly. And this chase ensued.    We are starting to see some movement now there on the street. Matt Graham, still  with me, SWAT officer and instructor at Graham Combat -- this is going to move  quickly or are they going to take their time here -- Matt?   
GRAHAM: It depends on when the last round was fired if from inside the vehicle, people are still actively engaging or have the ability to engage. It's going to  go a little slower.    The presence of the bearcat can speed it up a little bit. That's an armored  truck that their team is able to deploy from and work in and out of and it's  kind of a buffer between you and the threat. You always want to put something  between you and the hurtso they're putting the bearcat between them so  they can start to work with that.    It also gives them the advantage of getting up and over the vehicle. Being able  to see down into the cab of that vehicle and engage if they need to while either  making an approach or like Rod said coming up to clear it for explosives.   
BAIER: Now, what about keeping someone alive in that car? As we wait for this news conference that is getting ready to start here. Let's head there. I'll  finish up that thought when we get more information here from San Bernardino.  Let's listen in.   
VICKY CERVANTES, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: Ok. My name is Vicky Cervantes. I'm a sergeant with the San Bernardino Police Department.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you step up please? You've got to step way close.  
CERVANTES: How's that. Ok. My name is Vicky Cervantes. I'm a sergeant with the San Bernardino Police Department.    Just an update for you: The number of wounded has increased to 17 at this point.  The number of fatalities has remained at 14. We have a telephone number that we  would like to provide for people that want to be united with their family that  was possibly at the Inland Regional Center today and that telephone number is  800-637-6653.    We are asking that anybody that has family that was at this facility, call this  telephone number first. And the person will advise you where you need to go in  order to talk to somebody to get reunited with your families.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sergeant, you've got an ongoing tactical situation up the road here with a suspect down and officer possibly down. What do you know about  that?   
CERVANTES: I did hear the radio traffic on that. There is an active scene. I believe there may be a suspect down. It's my understanding that the officer is  ok. And -- I don't have many updates on that other than the officer is ok.       
CERVANTES: I cannot confirm that at this point. There's a dark- colored SUV involved and I believe there is one suspect down. It's very active and we will  update you as soon as we get more information on that.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Just one scene? Just one scene?  
CERVANTES: Correct, just one scene.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And only one suspect?  
CERVANTES: I only know of one. That doesn't mean that there aren't more at this point.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And how far away is that from here?  
CERVANTES: Probably a couple miles from here.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So can you please repeat once again. There's an active scene related possibly to this mass shooting earlier. What is going on?   
CERVANTES: The only thing I know is there were shots fired. Officers were involved. And there is a suspect down -- whether it's related or not, we don't  know yet. We will update you as we told you we will update you on the hour.  We'll remain out here and we will update you as soon as we get any additional  hopefully within the hour.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Were any officers hit in the exchange of gunfire between the suspect and the officers?   
CERVANTES: I cannot confirm that. I know that all officers are ok. Whether or not they were struck, I don't know.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What led you to this SUV?  
CERVANTES: I couldn't tell you that at this point, either. It's just -- this is such an active, fluid investigation. There's so many aspects to it and we just  don't have all that information at this time.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is there a suspect on the run right now?  
CERVANTES: That, I don't know.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We clearly saw the school buses go by. Who's in the buses --   
CERVANTES: That, I don't know. It is my assumption that witnesses and victims were in those buses. But I don't know if the building is completely cleared yet.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about the conditions of victims at the hospitals? How many people are hospitalized as far as you know? And what generally -- can you  tell us what their conditions, are there any gravely critical?   
CERVANTES: I've heard that they range from minor injuries, from that occurred while falling down, trying to escape. And they go up as high as gunshot wounds.  So I don't know their status.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why did the number go up this hour? Were these three people that were found in the building, hiding? Where did these three come from?   
CERVANTES: I don't know. It was just an update that the fire department provided us. Ok, we'll be back.       
CERVANTES: We'll be back at 4:00. I don't know. We will be back at 4:00 hopefully with some more and all media coverage will be here at this location.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.  
BAIER: Ok. What did we learn there? We learned that the number of wounded has gone up to 17, fatalities still at 14. There is this ongoing situation that  we're looking at live.    And what's happening now is that these vehicles, these bearcats have basically  pinned in the car in question. We're told that one suspect is down. All officers  are ok despite the radio traffic that one had been hit but apparently they're  saying they're all ok.    We have another report that one suspect is detained, one down. Is Trace  Gallagher still with me out there -- Trace?   
GALLAGHER: Yes, Bret. The officer we talked about earlier apparently was hit by a ricochet bullet and apparently will be ok. The scanner traffic said when these  bearcats pulled up. They were going in to check on the quote "bodies," plural,  "bodies inside the car". That apparently is what they're doing right now.    The other suspect we can tell you was still on the run because they continually  give the location update of that third suspect who is running away. And at one  point they were describing how the suspect was taking off clothing. Taking off  his camouflage gear and continuing to run.    They are now converging on that suspect who was at last check, at a church about  three or four blocks away from the scene you're seeing here. The police officer  said this was a couple of miles down the road. This is about one mile from where  the shooting happened earlier at the regional center where the 14 people were  shot and killed.    And now you can see officers have gotten the car, the SUV surrounded. This  appears to be in connection because nobody knocked it down at the press  conference -- this appears to be in connection with the earlier shooting. We're  waiting to find out from police right now if in fact these two suspects inside  the car have been neutralized -- Bret.   
BAIER: Ok. Just to reset for everyone as we're looking live there in San Bernardino this incident happened shortly after 11:00 local time. It's believed  up to three, we don't know actually, three at least according to witnesses,  military style gear, they walked in to this social services center shortly after 
11:00 local time in a conference center, where county health officials were holding a holiday luncheon and opened fire -- 14 dead as we said, 17 wounded.    The gunmen were described as having long guns. No specific identification yet on  the ballistics of those guns from investigators or from authorities.    Now let's go to Adam Housley. He's on the live view joining us now -- Adam.   
HOUSLEY: Yes, in fact I'm going to have Lance, we just pulled up to the scene right here. Lance, would you take the camera and turn to the right. We're right  here on the corner of what's called Tippecanoe -- it's -- Tippecanoe Avenue is a  major avenue out here at San Bernardino. We've been out here before for other  stories and things. It's a major thoroughfare -- that's basically the main  intersection near where the shootout took place.    You can see where they have law enforcement here, you know, ambulance, fire  trucks and you can see some of the unmarked cars that are going through. They've  shut it off obviously for anybody like us or locals who are moving out of the  way to let the people by.    In fact as you can turn the corner here, you can a massive police presence here,  massive also federal presence here right down there. Lance -- can you see the  car down there, shot? It's just out of our reach I think, possibly, we're going  to pull over and walk over there so you can see it. We're right again, here on a  main thoroughfare, Bret. Not far about 1.4 miles by my count directly east of  the facility.    So we're talking really close obviously from where the shooting took place,  about four hours and 28 minutes ago. We're going to get out of here and Lance is  going to walk over there as he gets out of the car. I'm going to obviously stop  the car and do the same thing. Hold on a second. All sorts of police presence as  I mentioned.    About 15 minutes ago is when the assault started to go down, when we first heard  and I was first tipped off that there was a pursuit in progress. That pursuit we  were first told was a pick-up truck and a black SUV, you know. At this point it  appears that they've got just the one car.    Lance is going over there right now, I'm catching up to them-- helicopters,  obviously are above -- whoa. Police and tactical gear all around, Bret. And  they've had, I mean I can't tell you the number of ambulances we've seen that  are on stand by. Police and law enforcement from all over the region -- Lance,  we can keep going. We're walking up here closer. Ok, I've got to --   
BAIER: Standby, if you will. We're going to take your live shot as you get closer to the scene. Ron Hoops is a 34-year veteran of the San Bernardino County  Sheriff's Department. He retired in 2012 as sheriff. Rod, as you look at this,  your thoughts on the day and what's happened.   
RON HOOPS, SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT: It's been a really interesting day and a tragic day of events here at San Bernardino. It's  unbelievable. I don't know what would possess someone to take things into their  hands and create such a tragic instance. I'm watching it as the rest of the  country is and I'm hoping and praying that the individuals that are responsible  for this are actually the ones that they have stopped in the black SUV.   
BAIER: Ron, what about that facility, and why potentially? And obviously we don't know the motive. Three men dressed in tactical gear, long guns and this  social services center. I mean, tell us about that facility, the conference  center and potentially why would it be a target?   
HOOPS: It's a facility that the county holds different events in. It is social services area, and they had mentioned on the news networks, they do -- they do  rent it out for different events.    You know, the motive and why they would pick that facility is unknown, that's  one of the scary things. The motive on why that they would do this at a building  like that is incomprehensible. I mean, it's used by lots of people. It's pretty  open facility. I mean, I know that they have some security guards there, but  it's kind of, it's in a very busy part of San Bernardino. It's just north of the  I-10 off Waterman Avenue, and it's very easily accessible. It's obvious that the  individuals that did this were well-prepared and had a plan. And it's very  tragic.   
BAIER: Rod Hoops, thank you very much for your perspective. Former sheriff there in San Bernardino.    Let's go to the FOX News deck and my colleague Shepard Smith who has been  following this since it all began. Shep?   
SHEPARD SMITH, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: -- one of the perpetrators, we believe, on the ground here in a pool of his own blood and two bodies inside this SUV.    The tactical vehicles have come in when this shootout first happened. This  police car right over here is also shot out. The side windows, the back windows,  and there was a police officer we were told who was injured by a ricochet. But  that police officer is said to be fine by the authorities.    So they've moved their way up here, and since they brought in these tactical  vehicles, they've now begun to stand down. You can see this officer is in clear  sight of this, which suggests to us that whatever has happened here is over.    We know that the authorities said they believe there were three shooters,  "upwards of three" is the word that they used. We don't know whether there was a  driver for this getaway vehicle. In other words, did they go in and shoot up the  police, kill 14, injure 17, and then come out in and drive for themselves, or  was there a driver in the SUV? That we don't yet know.    You can see a man coming out of this tactical vehicle armed out of what amounts  to a turret out of the top. And this vehicle is all shot up. You can see the  windows are blown out and we've been able to see two people inside.    It is clear that before the helicopter and the ground crews got on scene that  there was a wild shootout. We know that they've been searching for an SUV. If  they had more details than a dark-colored SUV they didn't share them with us.    But Bret, of course it's possible they've been on top of this for a while. So  they're coming up on Tippecanoe Drive here and in some way, we'll learn soon  enough, a shootout began, that officer injured by a ricochet, one suspect down  here and two in the vehicle. If there's a third, we don't know about it.    But Bret, you mentioned somebody had been taken into custody. Authorities  haven't told us this specifically but there was reason to believe that they  would have a getaway driver, and we know the initial report from this scene was  that one person did escape. And the earlier reporting is that they had a suspect  in custody. We'll see if that's the case as time moves on.    But as we take the thing full, you can see the positions that the law  enforcement officers are in are completely different than they were five minutes  ago. Initially they were standing back behind the armored vehicles, making sure  not to get in the line of sight. And now you can tell by the body language, one  man on the left-hand side of the screen behind that tactical vehicle shading the  sun as he watches in the late afternoon hours now is what's happening here. I  see no movement inside this SUV.    Authorities, Bret, appear to be of the belief that everyone in there is either  dead or incapacitated. And hopefully they've found the people that shot up that  inland center just about five hours ago.   
BAIER: Shep, you've covered a lot of these things. This is now the deadliest mass shooting since Sandy Hook, Newtown, Connecticut. It is different, though,  as you've been talking about all afternoon. The fact that there was not a lot of  information, the fact that these guys acted it appears altogether on this one  target and then got away until now. So we'll find out some more, but it's unique  in its perspective as far as one of these shootings.   
SMITH: And authorities we spoke to us first, the first organized news conference, said, well, they came prepared, and clearly they did. They came  prepared with long guns. If the early reporting is accurate from authorities and  otherwise they were in tactical gear. There was no information given to us about  their race or really much about them at all, which suggested to us that the  reports they were wearing black masks, clad head to toe in black and  unrecognizable sort of makes sense now.    But the question, Bret, is whether authorities knew more about this vehicle than  they let on in the early going. It's not our belief that they did we say that  because the initial reporting of the SUV driving away came from man who I said  worked across the street. He heard a water truck guy coming running out of the  building and he was, he was armed. And the man said that's guy in there  shooting. So the armed man across the street said, well, I'm going to come  outside and watch this. And he watched a man get into this dark SUV.    From the reporting now of KABC, our network news service affiliate, this is how  this went down. A woman was in her own car, says three cop cars came west. Here  on Tippecanoe Avenue and pursued this black SUV. So they're in what amounts to a  short police chase. The black SUV, people started firing out of the back  windows, which would explain why the back windows of that vehicle are blown out.    She got out of there real quick. But she apparently saw the beginning of this,  police in pursuit, a man firing out of the back of this vehicle so somebody  driving in the front, somebody else firing in the back. Clearly somebody got out  of this vehicle, because we're able to see a body on the street in a pool of  blood. And Bret, I understand you have an eye witness on the phone.   
BAIER: We do, Shep. Thank you.   Dory Cohen joins us from San Bernardino. Dory, can you tell us where you are and  what you see?   
DORY COHEN, EYEWITNESS,: Hi. Yes, I'm on the corner of Richardson and Colson. And I followed the three cop cars that were in pursuit of  the black SUV. And I followed them for about a block to about Victoria Avenue,  about a quarter of a mile, and then I heard shots fired out of the back window.  And then I made a U-turn and just got the heck out of there.   
BAIER: So you saw the original shots fired from the back of the SUV?  
COHEN: Yes.  
BAIER: And then the police were already in pursuit at that moment?  
COHEN: Three police were in pursuit. The local police were in pursuit. And then they just started coming from every angle. We had Homeland Security here and all  kinds of every police force you can imagine.   
BAIER: Where were you today? Were you anywhere near the event today?  
COHEN: Yes, I actually I was. Actually I'm a private investigator and actually I was working up on Waterman earlier today. I got out of there about 11:00. I  wasn't working where the scene was where that happened. I was working on North  Waterman. But I've been in the area. I live in the area.   
BAIER: Being a private investigator, do you have a sense from law enforcement whether they believe they have all of the people involved?   
COHEN: You know, think they do. I'm not really sure about that, but they probably do. I think they're taking a lot of, a lot of energy on this one spot.  I think if anything else that they thought would be going on they would be in  other areas right now.   
BAIER: Dory Cohen, thank you so much on the scene there, on the phone. Adam Housley is also on the scene with another eye witness. Adam?   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret, we're about 150 yards or 200 yards. This is where the shootout began right where I'm standing, right in front  of me where the back window was shot out. Bob Filterwas here along with  some of the employees as well. When you heard what was going on you gave me a  pretty great description, Bob, but what was it like?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: l Well it was chaos. The cop cars were coming down. The sirens were going off. And right in front of the building we heard a shot. And  it blew out the back window of the SUV. It traveled down the street here about  another two blocks and all of a sudden they started unloading. And it sounded  like Vietnam out here. They were shooting like crazy.   
HOUSLEY: Both sides were shooting?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.  
HOUSLEY: Did you see how many people in the car, or the SUV?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You couldn't because the windows were all dark. So we didn't see, but we heard there were three, and they shot one up there, so two are still  loose.   
HOUSLEY: Obviously you know what happened about four-and-a-half hours ago just up the street here about a mile-and-a-half. What's the last four and a half  hours been like, and what's it like when that happened, that timeframe?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's been a little chaotic here. We shut everything down. We locked the plant up. We locked all the gates outside just in case because we  didn't know where they were at, and then we heard the reports that they were  still on the loose. So we thought everything was under control because we've  been watching the news reports up there, and it looked like the cops were at  ease and stuff like that. And then all of a sudden this happened this afternoon.  They must have flushed them out from somewhere. And here we are.   
HOUSLEY: What's that feel like to have this kind of gun battle literally feet in front of you for this business?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My heart is still pounding like crazy. It was very, very scary. Very scary. We heard the shots. I hit the dirt and so did everybody here.  We got everybody down. Flying bullets, you never know where they're going to  land.   
HOUSLEY: Bob Filter, appreciate your time, and sorry to meet under this circumstance.    But Bret, as we run the scene again, Lance, our photographer had the shot. You  can see right here, maybe a couple hundred yards away. Right there is where the  shooting ended, or the shoot-out ended, I should say. But it began where we're  standing. So the glass is still in the street over behind the police car. That's  where the first window was shot out as part of that chase.    So Bret when we broke in with you it's been now maybe half-and-a- half when this  chase began, that's about the time that window was shot out. By the time the  aerial pictures came in that's where it ended up.    So you can see this shootout was rally only a couple of blocks long and it was  very violent as you heard from Bob. We met a couple of people coming down the  street saying they heard the gunshots as well and pretty much everybody just hit  the ground. And I have got to tell you, it's out here as you might imagine all  throughout this area for the last four and a half hours, to say it's been tense  is an understatement. Bret?   
BAIER: OK, Adam. Thank you. The bomb-disable unit apparently at the scene by the SUV. There doesn't seem to be a lot of urgency there. As Shep mentioned earlier,  that perhaps the people or person or people I believe it's two inside were  killed in that shoot-out. We don't have any official information that this was  directly related. However, it's pretty coincidental if it's not. And we expect  to get a briefing from authorities here shortly.    Joining us again, Rod Wheeler, homicide detective here in Washington, D.C, and  Ron Hosco, former FBI assistant director and crisis manager lead. The assumption  here, obviously, Rod, is these are the guys. And the question is whether these  are all the guys.   
ROD WHEELER, FORMER D.C. HOMICIDE DETECTIVE: Right. And I think that's going to be the question for the next couple of hours.    I think the other question that is going to come up and already has come up is  what is the correlation between these three individuals and that particular  building or the county of San Bernardino? Because, as we talked about earlier,  Bret, these individuals targeted that building for a reason.    The other thing that I find very, very interesting from a police perspective is  that this vehicle, the suspect vehicle we're looking at now on the screen, had  not made it further away from the actual crime scene. That's a bit unusual.  Would you agree with that, Ron?   
RON HOSCO, FORMER FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: It is unusual.  
WHEELER: Because usually in situations like this, their first priority, the bad guys, is to get as far away from the scene as they can. And for this vehicle to  be less than a mile or two from the actual initial shooting scene really comes  as a surprise.   
BAIER: Yes. Your thoughts on how this goes down? First of all, our props and thanks to the law enforcement who obviously jumped on this right away.   
HOSCO: You just stepped ahead of me, I totally agree with you. Whether this was an alert citizen or alert police officer on the street, because we see patrol  units look like they were first engaged, not SWAT units. So assuming this was an  alert citizen or an alert police officer, pulling up behind this vehicle and  using their senses saying this could be related. This is a phenomenal turnabout  in what could have been days of apprehension in the California area or maybe  across the country. And now it will be incumbent on the investigators to put  this together and figure out, are there other pieces of this puzzle, what are we  missing, are there other actors, or is this small group concluded?   
BAIER: Does it look like they're going in? This is part of the investigation?  
HOSCO: Part of what they are doing with the bearcats is denying people in that vehicle mobility. So that's job one. And then you do a very slow, deliberate  clear of that vehicle. And that may mean pulling people out very slowly, whether  they're hurt or not. You want to make sure no additional law enforcement gets  hurt. And the presumably go up and check the vehicle for explosives and make  sure again that something doesn't go bang and somebody and law enforcement isn't  hurt.   
BAIER: Let's go back to Shepard Smith in the news deck in New York. Shep?  
SMITH: They've been setting this up, Bret, for quite a while. Some of our viewers may have been watching. They've got this barricade set up. All  indications are, we've watched some video. There appears to be someone deceased  in the back of this vehicle who from all counts the person who had been firing  at the cops as they came on this short drive from where Adam Housley was.    Now they've set up this barricade and a vehicle is pushing it forward acting in  an abundance of caution. We saw a number of bullet holes in the front of the SUV  and we saw what looked like another person in the front, though we can't be  certain about that because, frankly, when we zoomed in on that, the video is  kind of blurry.    There's another person in the street in a pool of blood as well. So if there is  a person in the front here, that's third. And that would account for the number  that they said was at the very beginning.    The law enforcement officers, you know, they appear to think that this person is  deceased in here. They stood down about 10 minutes ago and have frankly gotten  into eyesight of the vehicle, so one would assume they would believe everyone in  there is dead. That said, you can see in the near ground of your picture, the  men who are armed in what appears to be camouflaged just behind the tree in the  bottom left of the screen, have come out with guns drawn, and now they're just  inching forward toward this vehicle. Lots of evidence going to be in there.  Chances are they'll have the Wednesday and obviously shoot-out several time ago.  Soon they'll probably be able to know who these people are and maybe get to a  motive in this case.    But the vehicle, Bret, as you can see is pulling back now. They've gone in,  presumably been able to get a bunch of information, five people on the front of  that thing and now backing off. This is a process, Bret, that might take some  time. The last thing they want to do is mess up now.   
BAIER: As we're looking live here, the investigation it appears is solely focused, Shep, on this area. We're not hearing any other traffic of chases or  any other activity.   
SMITH: There's other activity in the area, but it appears to us -- two or three different locations, but it appears that that's all abundance of caution. We  have reports of a pipe bomb being found not very far from this. Could that have  been dropped out of a vehicle? It could have been. It's on the same avenue.  Whether it's connected, we can't be sure.    We know that someone who was running through the neighborhood has been  apprehended. We don't -- at this point we have no reason to believe that that  person was directly involved with this. The only thing that was sort of left  unknown was when these men left this facility there in San Bernardino, did they  have a driver in addition to what the police believe was three shooters? Of that  we can't be certain yet.    And we have three different choppers overhead on this now, the FOX chopper and  our two network news affiliate choppers, and from all of their different angles,  we believe there are two people inside. But again, it's blurry enough to where  you can't really tell. We watched for a while, there was absolutely no movement.  It's so dark in there that from the chopper shot you can't tell if there was  blood in there, but you can presume that there was indeed.    You can see the police car, which is right now if you're back up to the  right-hand, right near corner of this is where the police car is that has  windows blown out all around it. But it's our understanding that the officer was  injured who was not hit by direct fire but by a ricochet, and now from the  hospital that that officer is going to be, and I quote, "fine."    Look at the left side of your screen now. You see more of these heavily-armed  officers moving their way in. And now a retriever of some kind on a long pole,  most likely they'll put that in there. If I'm guessing, Bret, they'll poke the  people who are inside to see if they're alive or maybe try to retrieve a weapon  before they go in there farther. If they see a weapon, they would want to  retrieve that before going in to take any further action.    I'm sure one of the things you would be concerned about if you're an officer is,  is somebody in there playing hurt or playing dead able to do one more thing.  They don't want to allow that.   
BAIER: And they'll be plenty of time to analyze this for politics, but Rod Wheeler, this San Bernardino Police Department obviously is equipped with those  armored vehicles and they have the equipment and the staff ready to handle this.   
WHEELER: Absolutely. They are very well-equipped. As a matter of fact they had a training session from what I hear earlier today. So they have been training for  these types of situations, they know exactly what they're doing. The approach to  the vehicle was a very methodical approach. This is an approach that they've  used before. This is an approach that most of us in law enforcement would use,  Bret, in a situation like this.   
BAIER: Let's go to Adam Housley who has another eyewitness on the scene. Adam?  
HOUSLEY: Yes, Bret. In fact, we have all of these guys here were pretty much all in the area. They were being moved out. Let's see if I can get one of them to  talk to us. You can see part of the problem is these guys have to find a place  to go and do it in a safe situation. These guys were all working here when the  shots basically started right here in front of this business. In fact I have a  couple of -- can I ask you a question really quick, anybody. What did you see?  What did you hear?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just first shots here. The cops were trying to stop a black SUV. And we just heard shots and window, the back window of the SUV just broke  off, shattered. And there were more shots down the street here, and then the  majority shots a block away. There was at least 19 or 20 shots.   
HOUSLEY: Yes, 19 or 20, you think?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, 19 to 20 shots from shot number one to the last shot. Yes, it was pretty bad.   
HOUSLEY: How many of you guys were -- obviously you guys were shutting the factory down, getting down low when that happened. That's got to be pretty nerve  wracking, I assume.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Definitely. We were ducking back to the car. And it was pretty scary.   
HOUSLEY: What's this like for somebody who is not from San Bernardino to know this happened a mile from here you had a horrible massacre, and then to have the  shootout take out right here.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was scary. And we were cautious with all of us here, we were all cautious. We had everything locked down. And just to be safe, you know,  we were escorting people out and locking everything down.   
HOUSLEY: Nice meeting you. Sorry under these circumstances. Hey, Bret, we will give it back to you now. You can see all these guys here. There was a lot of  witnesses on the street. And you've got to believe that police are moving a lot  of us back because they want to interview all these folks who continue this  investigation, Bret.   
BAIER: Adam Housley there just down the block from what you are looking at live from San Bernardino. Let's head back to Shep with some thoughts from federal  official activity.   
SMITH: Indeed, and I will get to that. If you look in the back left passenger side of this -- driver's side of this vehicle, they have just pulled what  appears to be a deceased man out of the backseat. From the way they pulled this  person it appears that this was a person who was in the back of this vehicle,  and closer look inside the vehicle, if there is another person in there now, we  don't see that person.    And this just from the "Los Angeles Times." The "Los Angeles Times" is quoting a  federal official who says that the feds believe a man was in this meeting when  this shooting began, a man was in the meeting, angrily left the meeting, then  returned with, quote, "one or two others," unquote, and started shooting.    So, according to the reporting of the "Times," a federal official says one of  the shooters was actually in this meeting, left, and came back with others in  this what is now clearly a very organized event. One person pulled out of the  back of that SUV now, another person dead on the street. And there are multiple  reports in and around Los Angeles, Bret, including that of NBC 4, the NBC News  owned and operated station, that, in fact, one suspect is still on the loose.  FOX News can't confirm that and we don't, at this moment, have reason to believe  that. But I should tell you that NBC is reporting that and we'll see.   
BAIER: OK, Shep. We're watching live and watching all the activity there on the street, but there is also, obviously, activity throughout San Bernardino as they  are trying to determine whether this is it or there are other things going on.    Back with Rod Wheeler and Ron Hosko. Ron, we talked about the investigation and  where this goes. But, until you get to motive, tying all this together is really  a puzzle.   
HOSCOW: That's right. And we will see things -- let's assume these are the players. We will see on social media the law enforcement will be able to track,  presumably they have all been moving with cell phones. They will be able to  track the fact that the three of them are together they were at these locations.  And that they arrived here. So the pieces will be put together along with those  other witnesses in the room if Shepard's report turns out to be valid.   
BAIER: Yes. In this environment, a lot of the country is just on edge, Rod. And we see this. We don't have an explanation for it and there is a lot of cities  that are saying are we ready for something like this?   
WHEELER: That's right. I think a number of cities are preparing and have prepared for active shooter situations obviously. But a lot of this goes back to  mental health. And I don't want to make this into a political discussion or  anything, Bret, but it really goes back to mental health. Although in this  particular situation I find it very interesting what Shep just reported that if  it comes to be true that this one guy was associated with this holiday party or  this meeting, that may be the nexus as to why this event took place today.    And I have been saying all day since this thing first broke there had to be a  correlation between either one or all three of these individuals and that second  floor of that building. Because why? They passed the first floor, went directly  to the second floor, went to the conference room. Why did they do that? Why  didn't they just shoot up everybody on the outside? They didn't do that. So I  you think what Shep just reported is really, really interesting. And I think as  the night goes on, we are going to learn a lot more.   
BAIER: Yes, but when you're talking mental health, you've got three guys involved potentially, that's a different ballgame.   
WHEELER: That is a different ballgame absolutely. That may not be mental health related.   
BAIER: Shep, you have got something else.  
SMITH: Yes. This, Bret, is not over, sadly. What we now have is confirmed one dead in the street here, one dead in the vehicle, and there is another active  scene underway right now. According to multiple reports from the scene,  including that of KTLA and KNBC, a man has barricaded himself inside a home  nearby, apparently believed to be another of the suspects in this case.    Remember, one person is dead on the left-hand side of your screen here. Another  is dead they just pulled out of the vehicle. And there is a third person, at  least that we know of. Well, nearby, in a residential area inside a home,  authorities now -- in fact, we have live pictures of this -- no, that's near  this scene. Nearby here there is a man barricaded inside a home, according to  multiple reports. Police have surrounded it and apparently they believe that  another suspect may be barricaded inside this home.    How can we be sure of this? Well, at this point, we can't. But you are looking  live now as authorities are searching this gold colored pickup truck and  authorities standing around it, that's part of a current scene. But nearby is  another location where authorities have reason to believe that another person  involved in this may be barricaded.    We say this because the original report was three suspects, two on the ground.  And the locals, the residents were reporting that somebody took off running.  Very quickly we got a report of a car crash nearby and the possibility of a pipe  bomb nearby which turned out just to be a pipe. And now word that there is  someone barricaded in a home with authorities surrounding that home.    You may notice the chopper shot is pulling out. It's my understanding is the  choppers are looking for this location. It's within a short running distance of  here. They were able to pull the one suspect out of the back here. He is dead on  the street along with another. And they found another location where apparently  they believe another man is holed up.    We don't know whether they are certain that this is connected to this scene. But  we can tell you that residents in the area have been ordered to shelter in  place. Anybody got an exact location of this on the news deck?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Looks like Richardson.  
SMITH: Richardson Street at?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gould Street.  
SMITH: At Gould Street, which is very nearby. In fact we have a location of that here on a Google map. Ryan, go ahead.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This appears to be the location as to where we have been watching the SUV pinned in.   
SMITH: Which is here?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Correct. Gold Street and Richardson Street is a mile from there. According to KTLA, that's where they are reporting this is happening.   
SMITH: And they are working to get a chopper over that. If you walk over to the big wall you will see they have pulled out for a moment. This is the original  scene. And we are just about a half mile down the same road from where this  barricaded suspect is.    Obviously at times like this anybody running through a neighborhood would be  seen as the suspect. But it now appears that the third, if they were right about  three suspects, someone is on the run. And right now they -- a guy appears to be  barricaded inside a home. Authorities have sent out a warning to people in the  neighborhood I just showed you for people to live there to remain inside their  homes with the doors locked, not to go outside. And apparently we have another  active situation developing now. I'm watching three different chopper shots as  they work to figure out where this exact location is. But, Bret, when we have  it, we will bring it to you.   
BAIER: Shep, what's confusing to me is that there are multiple reports out of L.A. now that say that two of the suspects were shot and one of them killed, and  then one was in custody. But I guess what we're seeing is varied reports from  varied places and we are not getting anything definitive from authorities.   
SMITH: That's right. And I think one of the things that remains unclear now is whether the -- they believe there were three suspects. If they were right about  that the question from the very beginning has been, was there a driver? In other  words, did these three people, we now believe one man came out of the meeting  and then went back in with a couple of others. When they came out as described  by witnesses walking slow to this SUV, did they get in and drive that vehicle or  did they have a person standing by? If so, that would mean one more. We don't  have a way to know now. All we are certain of is that authorities have what they  believe to be a man barricaded inside a home and an order for a people to  shelter in place.   
BAIER: All right, Shep, we will head back for any new details to the news deck.   You are looking live there in San Bernardino, California, it is a sad, another  tragic day. And we don't have all the pieces to this puzzle as of yet. We do  know 11:00 a.m. pacific time, it's believed three men dressed in tactical gear,  armed with long guns, went into a social service center in San Bernardino. The  place was being rented out, a conference center, where there was a holiday  luncheon of some kind for county health officials.    They shot that room up, 14 dead so far, 17 wounded. Then they didn't know,  authorities said, where they went. They were looking for a dark SUV. Sometime  later, a few hours later, there was a chase that ended where we are looking  right now. And we're trying to get all the details. Keep it here on FOX for  continuous covering of this shooting. Fair, balanced, and still unafraid.   
