  
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: What is also incredible is now the leader of Germany and the leader of Syria, different characters, they, agreed on this much. A lot of those  refugees who made their way into Europe from Syria, well, a lot of them are bad  guys. In fact, a lot of them are ISIS, in fact, more than you know.    To a woman who was on this long before anyone I know, K.T. McFarland, FOX News  national security analyst.    That`s Bashar al-Assad saying that. That`s Angela Merkel of Germany saying that,  a host of others saying that, K.T., saying that it`s very likely many slipped  through the cracks and are in Europe as we speak.    What do you make of it?   
K.T. MCFARLAND, FORMER U.S. DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: Well, I think it`s not just that.    I mean, let`s just say it`s 1 percent, so it`s million refugees coming and 1  percent are bad guys. That`s still a lot of bad guys. That`s 1,000 bad guys.    But look what happens. And it doesn`t take any kind of a fortuneteller to  predict what is going to happen over the winter. You have got thousands of  refugees, hundreds of thousands of refugees. They`re going to the refugee  centers. They`re going into shelters. Some of them are right now sleeping in the  fields.    What happens when the weather starts getting cold? There are no jobs for these  people. There`s potentially no organized housing. There`s not going to be a lot  of social benefits, because a lot of the benefits will have been used up.    There just -- there isn`t a -- it`s not a bottomless pit for this. So, when they  come, they come to Europe, they don`t have anyplace to stay. It`s going to be a  cold winter. They will become breeding grounds and easy pickings for recruiters.    And they`re already in -- in Europe right now. So it`s not like you have got to  smuggle anybody in addition. These are already people who are going to be in  pretty desperate straits by a cold winter and they will be easy pickings for  recruiters.   
CAVUTO: So, the irony will be to those Western powers that have held become on bringing them in, that very behavior, maybe for very justifiable reasons,  security reasons, is actually going to make the situation worse.   
MCFARLAND: It`s going to make it worse.   I talked to some -- a leading international businessmen who is headquartered in  Paris, and he said that what is happening is that, as the Europeans countries,  as part of this Schengen agreement -- that`s the agreement whereby once you get  into Europe, you can travel freely -- there are no borders.    Once you get into Europe, then you can move freely around the entire region. But  if the European, Northern European countries send people home and say, look, we  don`t have room for you anymore, where do they go? They go back to where they  first entered Europe, which is the Baltics -- in the Balkans.    And that could become the new hot pot, the new, you know, chaotic place in the  next six months, is in the Balkans.   
CAVUTO: All right, K.T., thank you very much, I think.  
MCFARLAND: Thank you.  
CAVUTO: K.T. McFarland.  
MCFARLAND: Yes.  
