  
 GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: Tonight ON THE RECORD, Senator Marco Rubio and he has something to say about President Obama. The  commander-in-chief has said there is no greater threat to our planet than  climate change. And today the president is in Paris urging world leaders to come  together to focus on climate change. The president on multiple occasions has  said that global warming is a critical issue.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: No challenge, no challenge poses a greater threat to future generations than climate change.    The growing threat of climate change could define the contours of this century  more dramatically than any other.       
VAN SUSTEREN: Right now Florida senator and 2016 G.O.P. presidential candidate Marco Rubio goes ON THE RECORD from New Hampshire.    Good evening, senator.   
SEN. MARCO RUBIO,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Good evening.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Senator, first, on the issue of climate change. Do you believe that the climate change is the result of man-made or is it man-made in any way?   
RUBIO: Well, first of all, the climate changing has always been changing. There has never been a time when the climate hasn't been changing. And what percentage  of that is due to man's activity is not something there is a consensus on. There  is -- 90 something percent of the time to say that man-made activity.   
VAN SUSTEREN: What do you think?  
RUBIO: Well, again, I'm a policymaker and my job is to go through the different solutions that they present to us. And I can tell you that all the changes they  are presenting to us would do nothing even according to the scientists would do  nothing to change our climate, especially in the United States but would have a  dramatic impact on our economy.    So as a policymaker, I refuse to support initiatives that will do nothing to  impact the environment or the climate, but would have a devastating impact on  our economy.   
VAN SUSTEREN: So as I understand if you had sufficient information presented to you to show that climate change exists and it's the result of something that man  is doing or women are doing, whatever, is that you would, perhaps, have a  different view, your policy would be different?   
RUBIO: Yes. But scientists have already said that in terms of climate sensitivity, there is not a global consensus on that. And even now there is a  dispute about what the target should be. Some, you know -- the target being said  by some is 2-degree Celsius change, that they think that two more degrees and a  warming that that would somehow trigger some terrible global impact.    But they are now -- scientist saying that's basically an arbitrary number.  There's no science behind it. It's just an easy to define political goal. That's  what's so nebulous about this whole debate. Meanwhile, as a policymaker, I'm  being presented with options that would have a real impact on our economy and it  will have an impact immediately in making America uncompetitive.    I don't support anything that will make America uncompetitive, especially if it  doesn't have any sort of environmental benefit on the back side of it   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Do you disagree with the president saying that it's very important to future generations?   
RUBIO: Well, that's not what he is saying. What he is saying is that it's the greatest threat facing future generations and that I don't agree with. I think  the greatest threat facing future generations domestically is $19 trillion debt  for which there is no answer in place. And a national security apparatus in this  country that continues to deteriorate at a time when the world is growing more  dangerous.    Whether it's radical Jihadists or Russia or China or North Korea or Iran's  nuclear ambitions. The world is growing increasingly dangerous and we are going  to be cutting a trillion dollars out of the Defense Department and, we,  including some Republicans have voted to weaken our intelligence gathering  capabilities.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Over the weekend, Senator Ted Cruz has accused you of attempting to mislead voters in an effort to slow down conservatives coming together for  him, for Senator Cruz. He said that in Iowa and is in reference to a super PAC  ad. Do you have a response to Senator Cruz?   
RUBIO: Well, I don't have anything to do with those groups. I can tell you my position and that is that I stand strongly on behalf of the ability of this  government to gather intelligence on our adversaries and our enemies especially  terrorist, but other nation states. Those keep us safer.    And there are Republicans, including Senator Cruz that have voted to weaken  those programs. That's just the part of the record. There's nothing personal.    And the fact of the matter is that today we do not know as much as we once did  about potential adversaries partially due to the disclosures made by traitor  named Edward Snowden and part of it due to presidential directives and even this  law that was recently passed that has cancelled the metadata collection program,  which means that if God forbid, there were terrorist attack in America tomorrow,  we would not be able to gather the phone records of individuals that might be  part of that plot in a time effective way.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Well, when you criticize him for not supporting -- the Super PAC for not supporting the law, which now allows bulk data not to be  collected he fired back and said that you are for amnesty. That's -- now he is  going after you for amnesty?   
RUBIO: Well, Senator Cruz's position on immigration is not much different than mine. He has supported in the past and has said he is still open to supporting,  legalizing people that are in this country illegally.    What I have tried to do is find a reasonable solution to a very serious problem  that continues to plague us. And it's very clear we can't do that in a  comprehensive bill.    That, in no way, takes away from the fundamental argument that today our  intelligence gathering capabilities have been weakened by both presidential  directives, the disclosures made by a trader and also a law that was passed that  unfortunately some Republicans supported.   
 VAN SUSTEREN: Senator Rubio, you said you'd never -- you are talking to some pastors that you'd never change your position on traditional marriage  and on life?    What do you do if you are elected president and your personal views are in  conflict with what may be the law?   
RUBIO: Well, we have a way in this country to change laws we don't agree with. That's called -- whether it's the court system issuing a new president that  overrules an old president or passing laws in this country.    What I have said is that an individual -- if some individual is ordered by --  compelled by government to violate something that violates their personal  conscious, they should not be forced by law to do that. For example, no one  should be forced to preside over same-sex marriage if it violates their faith.  And I'm not sure any people are arguing they should be force to do that. But we  live in a country where we have freedom and a Republic. And what we are able to  change existing laws, whether it's the court systems ruling differently in the  future or being able to pass laws in the case of other matters.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Senator, thank you for joining us. And enjoy New Hampshire. I know you are spending a lot of time there as in Iowa, too. Thank you, sir.   
RUBIO: Thank you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Other 2016 G.O.P. presidential candidates are critical to president that he is taking on climate change.       
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It is delusional for President Obama and Hillary Clinton and anyone else to say that climate change is our near term  most severe security threat.   
SEN. TED CRUZ,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: They think essentially your SUV in the driveway is a greater threat to our security than is ISIS.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have large groups of people that want to blow up every one of our cities, that want to destroy our country, that  want to kill our people and he is worried about global warming.   
CRUZ: It's gotten to the point where I don't think "Saturday Night Live" can even parody this president anymore.   
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: For the president to be over there talking about climate change today quite frankly is insulting.   
TRUMP: It's one of the dumbest things I have ever seen.  
FIORINA: It is delusional. It is ISIS, period.      
VAN SUSTEREN: The president saying climate change and especially rising seas is a threat to our land security, our economic infrastructure and the safety and  health of the American people.    And many 2016 candidates interpreting this that his comments mean tackling  climate change is more critical than defeating ISIS.    The ON THE RECORD political panel is here. "ABC News" political director Rick  Klein and from "The Hill," A.B. Stoddard.    First to you, Rick.    A poll done by "ABC" and "Washington Post" said 63 percent of all Americans  including Democrats and Republicans say the global warming is a serious threat.  Is this an important issue that Republicans are to be paying attention to as it  relates to the race in 2016?   
RICK KLEIN, POLITICAL DIRECTOR, ABC NEWS: There is disconnect here between people suggesting and feeling that there is a threat and wanting to do something  about it. And that's I think is sticking in this poll.    Yes, you had about two thirds of people -- there's two thirds of people saying  it is a serious problem in that poll. But you also have less than half saying  that they want the federal government to do more about it which is actually a  lower number than under the George W. Bush administration.    So I think President Obama has been making a case right now that the public has  not bought right now. That's why you see Republicans jumping on this and  pointing this out and saying, look, this is what the real threat is.    I think the public is actually primed to listen. They just haven't -- they  haven't heard the argument connected the way that they need it to make an action  item.   
VAN SUSTEREN: A.B., it is politics, but Senator Ted Cruz says that President Obama is more worried about SUV in your driveway is a greater threat than ISIS.  I think that's probably a stretch don't you?       
A.B. STODDARD, THE HILL: Yes, there's no doubt. I mean, he is counting on this sort of apathy or fear actually among the electorate that in a very sluggish  recovery after a recession, once people have learned about the cost of  mitigating climate change, they don't want to -- the government to invest in  that. They are afraid it will raise their food bills, their heating bills, their  cooling bills, their gas bills, everything.    And so, it's easy to say look at this president. He is over, just after the  attacks in Paris, having a climate change conference. This is so goofy. Why is  it such a priority for President Obama when we are under a serious threat. It's  an easy, sort of hyperbolic, rhetorical tool to use in the primary campaign.    Realistically, it's not so great in the general election, though. Many Americans  are afraid of the long term effects of climate change and they are happening  much more faster than we originally anticipated.    And the problem with the timing of this conference is if you plan a conference  no matter what happens, you can't cancel it. I mean, it's a big intractable  problem you have to keep working on it. And sometimes it comes around on the  calendar right after something terrible has happened.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And look at the numbers, I guess Rick, within the Republican Party. I think it's only about 13 percent are concerned with the global warming  as a political issue. So there aren't that many Republicans if you are trying to  win the primary. And the president, I guess to soften A.B.'s problem about the  timing of the conference. He did walk around Paris with President Hollande to  the areas where the massacre occurred.   
KLEIN: As you would have to. I mean, it seemed appropriate. And I think the president even points that out and said the fact that we are here is a statement  to the terrorist.    But A.B. is right. The timing is the timing. I think most people feel like the  government, even the president can walk and chew gum at the same time. The  rhetoric, though, for the Republicans is difficult because for a long time it's  been you deny climate change. You deny climate change. Fewer and fewer, even  Republicans are believing that that's a plausible answer.     You see people like Senator Rubio making a bit of a turn saying it's  not clear to me that we can do anything about it. That's a little bit different.  That's a little bit nuance. But you are seeing it play again this very political  backdrop in much different ways in the two primaries.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And I should add Senator Lindsey Graham says that he is not a scientist, his grades show it and he accepts what the scientists say is a very  sort of famously at one of the debates.    OK, Rick, A.B., stick around, please.    This is a "Fox News" alert. The NSA's bulk collection of telephone data is now  over. The agency's authority to grab that data expiring yesterday. Critics of  the new law insist the now expired authority has help tracked down terrorists  including the recent Paris terrorist attacks.    So the big question, tonight, without this program in place, are Americans,  meaning you, at greater risk of terrorism?    "Fox News" chief intelligence correspondent Catherine Herridge is here.    Catherine, I guess it does -- I mean, did this program make a difference?   
CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Well, it made a difference, but to be clear this program has not ended. What's ended is the  NSA's ability to hold the state and now withheld by the phone companies and the  government has to get court permission to search that database.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Unless there's an emergency in which they can bypass in the courts permission so they can still get it?   
HERRIDGE: They can still get it. The larger issue is whether we are doing smart collection. And what I mean by that is whether this bulk collection is really  the most efficient way to look for terror suspects because remember in France  they knew who these people were. They had broad powers to collect the data, but  they still were not able to disrupt the plot, or whether we will be better off  doing more targeted collection which is what critics of the NSA support.   
VAN SUSTEREN: So is this -- are the critics saying and that this is really not a big difference. I mean, they can still collect the data.       
HERRIDGE: Right.  
VAN SUSTEREN: They can still collect the data.  
HERRIDGE: Correct.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And they have to get a court, a warrant to get it because the telephone companies are holding it. They have the warrant, but they don't even  need a warrant if it's an emergency.   
HERRIDGE: Right.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And then, of course, France had it and it didn't work.  
HERRIDGE: The issue is whether we are doing smart collection. And what you hear from analysts is what they call analysis paralysis, which is that there is just  this sea of data and you cannot find that thread quickly enough to disrupt these  plots based on the volume that you are dealing with. Critics say the answer is  targeted collection. But what we are going to find out now after Paris is  whether this subtle change in accessing the data really makes the difference in  our level of disruption.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Aren't terrorists a little bit smarter now than to use these cell phones? Isn't it just the rest of us who are using them?   
HERRIDGE: What you see with this kind of collection, the metadata which is who you call and the length of the call, not the content is a network for a suspect.  Who is the support network; who is renting the car; buying the chemicals;  finding the explosives? This is what you are going to find and which is what  they found in France after the fact, but it's not necessarily going to lead you  to the operatives, who have the training and the know how to use these encrypted  communications.   
VAN SUSTEREN: So more investigative after the fact than preventative.  
HERRIDGE: Correct.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Catherine, thank you.  
HERRIDGE: You are welcome.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And, today, President Obama in Paris with other world leaders discussing the climate. But that didn't stop the president from meeting on the  sidelines with Russian President Vladimir Putin to talk terror.    "Fox News" White House correspondent Kevin Corke is traveling with the president  in Paris.    Kevin?   
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Greta, you are right. Obviously, they want to talk about climate change. But quickly we are told by  White House officials the conversation, as you pointed out, did shift as the two  men talked about the ongoing crisis in and around Syria.    As you know, Putin has been a long-time supporter of the Assad regime. President  Obama says he has to go. If there is going to be a peaceful transition of power  in that country. Now the president we are told by the White House did also  express regret at the shoot down of a Russian aircraft last week by Turkey's  military.    They were allegedly in Turkish air space and that have obviously cause a great  deal of consternation in and around the region. In fact, the Russians unleashed  a wave of sanctions against Turkey. Now this evening we also learned that the  president is out and about having a very public dinner with his French  counterpart Francois Hollande.    The two men, again, in a show of defiance against terrorism eating out in a nice  restaurant. The two men after the pleasantries will no doubt, Greta, talk about  a great deal of topics including what's happening in Syria. And maybe just a bit  about getting Russia on board in the war against ISIS.    They would argue we are already flying sorties over Syria. But I think it's  pretty fair to say that the conventional wisdom is the Russians are doing more  to help the Assad regime than they are doing to try to destroy ISIS.    Greta?   
VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, thank you.   And as President Obama point to Donald Trump, trying to seal off a border, and  no it's not our border with Mexico.    "Wall Street Journal" reporting that the White House claims it is vital for  Turkey to seal off its 60-mile border with Syria.    The White House claims it will keep terrorists out and cut off black market oil  flowing out.    Joining us from the Capitol, Congressman Duncan Hunter who is also a United  States marine.    Congressman, your thoughts about the president telling Turkey at least we are  hearing that the word telling Turkey that that's what's being done to seal off  its border.   
 DUNCAN HUNTER, CALIFORNIA CONGRESSMAN: At least President Obama has asked for securing somebody's border. And at least he realizes that it does  some good. I mean, that's the irony here. And it's kind of funny that we can't  secure ours, we are not going to stop international terrorists from coming  across our southern border, but we know it's going to work for Turkey.    So that's number one.       
VAN SUSTEREN: Isn't that an admission that we can seal our border. If the president says Turkey can seal its border, the 60 miles, isn't that an admission  that if we really wanted to we could seal ours?   
HUNTER: Oh, absolutely. But more importantly, I would say, Greta, it's an admission that it actually works. That securing the border and not building a  wall like Trump is talking about, not closing the border but securing it.    So you don't have terrorist. You are not going to have Syrians or Turks or  Palestinians or Pakistanis coming across American southern borders and sitting  here in the U.S. until they are told to attack U.S. malls or U.S. stadiums.    So, yes, securing the borders works. The president has now admitted it. That  doesn't mean he is going to do anything about it. Number two, Turkey should  secure its borders. They need to be a good NATO ally. And what that means is  they are the entrance point for all these bad guys to go up into Europe and all  the Europeans that are bad guys to go down into Syria. They all transit through  Turkey. So if Turkey wants to be a serious NATO ally, then they have to secure  the border.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Are we at war -- this is a simple question. Are we at war with ISIS in your mind?   
HUNTER: Yes.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, then why hasn't Congress declared war on ISIS. The constitution actually gives Congress the power to do it. It's not even the  president can do that. Why don't you all just declare a war on ISIS?   
HUNTER: You are absolutely right, Greta. And here's why we actually could, too. ISIS is not al Qaeda who operated from different places, desperate places. There  was no actual land mass that al Qaeda held on to, right? ISIS owns land. There  is an actual battle front when it comes to ISIS. There is enemy lines when it  comes to ISIS.    This is different than Iraq or Afghanistan, where you were kind of fighting  shadow terrorists that pop up, kill you or try to, then go, you know, hide  again. You can actually declare war on them because by being the Islamic state,  they actually have a state. They hold land and we are.    There are bills. I am on one of them, where we are saying, hey, we should  declare war. In fact, Adam Kinzinger, who is on your show, it's his bill. I'm on  it. In fact, many other veterans are on it, too. We are trying to do this --       
VAN SUSTEREN: What's the hold up?  
HUNTER: It's not a popular thing in this Congress. It's just not popular.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, I mean, I can -- you know, with the whole nation worried about ISIS coming over our border or overstaying visas or sneaking in here or  being radicalized home-grown. It seems to me that if you put that up for a vote,  you might see a lot of members of Congress deciding that maybe we should declare  it. If we are at war with ISIS, why don't we just stay --       
HUNTER: Which we are, because here is what you have here, Greta. You have what I would call the Rand Paul Syndrome of not wanting to do anything, of being scared  of what happened in Afghanistan and being cared with what happened with, you  know, previous wars in the Middle East. You have the Rand Paul Syndrome right.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Wasn't it in some way though we could invoke article 5 of our NATO, and -- if there is a war, France has already declared war on ISIS, if we  declare war on ISIS, if we invoke article 5 of NATO, then it's getting everybody  together to fight ISIS.   
HUNTER: Which you are also talking ground troops in, Greta. I mean, that's a fairly touchy subject. You are talking about 100,000 people probably or more,  having to go in and actually fight a -- you know, I would call it a  quasi-conventional terrorist war.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I don't know if it means ground troops. I'm just saying that first start with everyone to sort of admit the obvious. And that would be a good start  and get everybody at least mobilized thinking, at least talking, but that's just  me.    Anyway, Congressman, thank you for joining us.   
HUNTER: I agree with you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, sir.  
HUNTER: Thank you, Greta.   And just in, a new batch of Secretary Hillary Clinton's emails just released.  What's in those emails? Ed Henry is here next.    Also, a U.S. visa program coming under fire with fears it could allow terrorist  to come into the United States unrestricted. One congresswoman is trying to end  that. Representative Candice Miller goes ON THE RECORD, coming up.   
 VAN SUSTEREN: This is a "Fox News" alert. A brand new batch of Secretary Hillary Clinton's emails just released by the State Department. Now,  this latest email dump nearly 8,000 pages from Secretary Clinton's private email  account now during the time she was secretary of state.    "Fox News" chief White House correspondent Ed Henry is here with what's in the  newest release.    Ed?   
ED HENRY, FOX NEWS CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, good to see you, Greta. What the headline really is that in this latest batch, you mention there  is the most pages of any email dump we have seen so far, there is another 328  emails that have now been deemed classified.    What's significant about that is that brings the total if you put all these  email dumps together to 999 emails with some sort of classified information in  them.    Now, of course, the Clinton camp has said again and again that they have been  deemed classified after the fact they were not marked classified at the time,  but her critics have been pointing out for some time and I suspect that will  continue after this document dump that as secretary of state she should have  known there were sensitive information in here.    Another interesting development tonight in some of these emails is we see one of  her top aides Philippe Reines, who we've heard a lot about or former spokesman,  was consulting with some interesting people about her concussion in late 2012.  There were health concerns.    I remember at the time, she was supposed to testify before the Benghazi  committee and they were trying to figure out what had happened to her. And  Philippe Reines has reached out to Roger Goodell, the NFL commissioner. We've  seen some emails about that to figure out how serious concussions can be. And  also reached out to doctor and former Senator Bill Frist. You see him right  there.    We don't have an email response from Goodell, but we do have an email response  from Bill Frist. You get to see it there. And what he says in part is he would  be more than happy to help consult on her concussion and also, you know, go  public and say anything because he said he loved Hillary Clinton, even though he  was a Republican who had clashed with her on some issues.    The point of it is that Philippe Reines is saying these emails to Hillary  Clinton that he wanted to consult these prominent figures. He wanted to push  back on some "Fox" contributors like Laura Ingraham, John Bolton, who is on the  show a lot who had said at the time that Hillary Clinton might have been faking  that injury and that the concussion wasn't that serious because she didn't want  to testify before the Benghazi panel. They wanted to push back on that.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Ed, he is a cardiologist. He's an NFL football player. Are there any to neurologist?   
HENRY: Right. To be clear, Hillary Clinton says in one of the emails I'm already good on doctors because she initially thought OK, why are you bringing in Dr.  Frist? I have doctors. I'm under a good care.    Again, what Philippe Reines was doing was more political damage control to say,  look, conservatives are beating up on you right now. And I want to stand up for  you as your spokesman. And so he was consulting with Dr. Frist, consulting with  Roger Goodell who obviously has big issues with concussions in the NFL right  now. So that being dragged in is interesting as well. And this was more about  political damage control.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Ed, thank you.  
HENRY: Good to see.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And brace yourself for this one. Dozens of Paris airport workers reportedly on the terror watch list. A live report -- next.   
VAN SUSTEREN: This is a "Fox News" alert. The hunt for the year's most wanted and most wicked man is heating up. One of the terrorists behind the Paris  massacre believed to have bought detonators from a fireworks store one month  before the attack is the subject of this manhunt.    Feature story news correspondent Kevin Ozebek is live in Brussels.    Kevin?   
KEVIN OZEBEK, FEATURE NEWS STORY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Greta, Salah Abdeslam has now been on the run for 17 days and still no sign of this fugitive. The French  newspaper, "The Parisian" is reporting that a fireworks store owner who owns a  shop just north of Paris believes he sold these 10 detonators to Abdeslam about  30 days before the November 13th attacks. Now this story owner says at the time,  he didn't think anything when this man walked in and was asking for 10 reliable  detonators, but after the November 13th attacks and after seeing Salah  Abdeslam's wanted poster, the store owner kind of connected all the dots in his  head and called police. And now police are trying to confirm if, in fact,  Abdeslam was at this man's store. Greta, here in Europe, we are now really  feeling the push from the European public for tougher protocols and stricter  laws to try to prevent another Paris style attack. You mentioned going into the  break about these employees at Charles Degal Airport, Paris' largest airport  being on a terror watch list.    This is coming out of a report from the Sunday Times in London. The Sunday Times  is reporting that nearly 60 employees at that airport that were recently  screened ended up being on a terror watch list. That's pretty alarming news.  Well, Greta, here in Belgium today, we heard Prime Minister say he wants  European intelligence agency similar to the one in the CIA. That doesn't have  support all across Europe, but European leaders definitely are on board with  having a various intelligence agencies across the continent sharing information  in a much more open, and a much more effective way.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, has anyone in Paris or in France responded to the fact that these airport workers are on the terror list?   
OZEBEK: Well, according to the Sunday Times in London, Charles Degal Airport will now be getting extensive screening of all of its employees, and there are  thousands of employees at that airport. And what alarmed so many people, Greta,  is that these nearly 60 people on the terror watch list had access to both the  tarmac and aircraft, so pretty frightening when you hear this report out of the  Sunday Times from London.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, thank you.   And the growing threat of a terror attack in the United States causing the Visa  Waiver Program to come under fire, now this program allows citizens from 38  different countries to travel to the United States without a visa for stays of  90 days or less. There is growing fear this program could allow people recruited  by ISIS to get into the United States. Michigan Congresswoman Candace Miller has  just introduced this legislation to counter act the problem. Congresswoman  Miller goes On the Record from the Capital. Good evening, ma'am. And can you  tell me what is -- what's the threat and what does your legislation seek to do?   
CANDACE MILLER, MICHIGAN CONGRESSWOMAN: First of all, you mentioned I just introduced legislation. Actually, Greta, we were very successful in getting this  legislation passed unanimously through the Homeland Security Committee here in  the house. So every Democrat, every Republican has already voted for this piece  of legislation. We are very hopeful. I have been talking to leadership. I am  hopeful that we will actually have a vote on the full floor here shortly. And as  you mentioned, this is a program that the United States started back in the  1980s, actually, to expedite tourism, and you know it's a different world today  than it was back in the `80s.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Would this legislation, if it gets put on the floor soon and passed, would it have prevented, for instance, the mastermind of the Paris  terrorism. He was a citizen of Belgium. Belgium is within one of the 38  countries that does need a visa. Does your legislation prevent a guy like that  from coming into the United States without a visa?   
MILLER: What my legislation essentially does is it says if you are one of the visa waiver countries, one of the 38 participating countries and do you not  share all of the information on your terrorist watch list, all of the  information sharing protocols that we need to have a very high degree of  competence and comfort level that we are getting all the information we need to  make sure that we can allow for that to happen. If not, then the Department of  Homeland Security Secretary can eliminate or suspend that particular country  from the Visa Waiver Program.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Here's the problem is that Paris apparently had 57 employees at Charles Degal Airport on the watch list, we didn't know about it all. They also  had this metadata gathering and they didn't prevent this attack. Even if France  was the most cooperative as could be, it is still, you know, still a risk for  us.   
MILLER: There is always a risk. There is always a risk. But I will tell that you almost every time there is one of these attacks in Europe or some of the other  participating countries, we find out after the fact that perhaps they had them,  one of these individuals on their watch list, but yet we weren't notified of it.  So we absolutely need to have all of the notification that we possibly can. And  you know, Greta, the 9/11 Commission said that for terrorists, really travel  documents are as good as weapons. That's what we need to think like, terrorists.   
VAN SUSTEREN: What about the microchip in passports. Our nation has it. What about other nations?   
MILLER: We need to look at all of that. We need to have E-passports and we are looking at all of that within our legislation. And you know, really, the White  House finally is starting to talk about this Visa Waiver Program as well. In the  Congress, we already passed this piece of legislation in our committee and  hopefully pass it in the house. There is a lot of talk in the Senate. I think  particularly with what's happened in Paris, this issue is ripe as we say here on  Capitol Hill. And hopefully it will pass. The terrorists are using our freedoms  of a free and open society against us. We need to close every loophole we  possibly can. There is no second for information sharing.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I know Speaker Ryan watches the show often. If he is watching now I hope he puts it up for a vote soon. Anyway, Congresswoman, thank you.   
MILLER: Thank you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And today day was day number one, the first trial day for one of the Baltimore police officers charged in the death of Freddie Gray. On the  Record was inside that courtroom today, that's next.   
VAN SUSTEREN: The desperate search is on for the mother of a newborn girl found buried alive in Compton, California. Two women say they heard something wailing  and while they were near a riverbed is when they heard it, so called 911. Police  followed the noise and discovered the unthinkable, a newborn girl in a hole  covered with asphalt and rubble, the baby less than 36 hours old when she was  found and still wrapped in a hospital blanket. The newborn is now listed in  stable condition. And police are asking for the public's health to find the  parents.    Trial of the first police officer charged in the death of Freddie Gray. Officer  William Porter is the first of the six Baltimore police officers indicted to be  tried. Gray died in April after suffering a spinal cord injury while in police  custody. His death sparked violent protests in Baltimore. On the Record's Griff  Jenkins is inside that courtroom today, Griff?   
GRIFF JENKINS: That's right, Greta. Jury selection has begun and will continue tomorrow. Judge Barry Williams had a pool of about 70 potential jurors. He was  asking questions of why they might not be able to serve, and partially he asked  them if they had been victims of crime. Had been incarcerated or are had pending  charges among other things, then the judge privately outside of open court with  those jurors in the process like I said will continue tomorrow. What really  stood out, Greta, was in the morning and here in the afternoon were the  protesters, they sounded like they were just underneath the courtroom. Clearly,  everyone could hear them.    In fact, I am not sure if we can see, there is a drizzle of about 50 protesters  behind here on the steps of city hall. They have been walking around, marching.  One wonders how much of a distraction and how much it will weigh upon these  jurors once we seat a jury -- when they hear what will be protests and bull  horns at one point, Joe Murtha, Officer Porter's Attorney stood up and looked  out the window to see them. There was a lunch break today earlier, and outside  the courtroom we spoke with the Gray Family Attorney Billy Murphy. Here is what  he had to say.       
BILLY MURPHY, GRAY FAMILY ATTORNEY: Their prayer is that justice is done, and then unusual family. Family aggrieved wants a guilty verdict. They don't want a  guilty verdict or a not guilty verdict. They want a just verdict based solely on  the evidence and on the law.       
JENKINS: So jurors will be back for more questioning tomorrow. The hope is that this trial will start this week, opening statements could be as early as  Wednesday, Greta?   
VAN SUSTEREN: Griff, thank you.   Boy, I have trouble if the jury hears protesters while they're being selected.  We will talk about that another day.    And Dr. Ben Carson becoming the first Presidential candidate to go to a Syrian  refugee camp, and I want to know what you think. Was Dr. Carson's trip about  policy or politics? So tweet policy or tweet politics using #Greta. We will show  you your live twitter votes throughout the show.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Get ready to speed read the news.   And developing in Chicago, Officer Jason Van Dyke, the cop charged with first  degree murder in the shooting death of 17-year-old Laquan McDonald just released  from jail on $1.5 million bond. He is due back in court on December 18th. Last  week, police released a dashcam video showing the Officer Van Dyke shooting  McDonald 16 times. That video sparked protests and marches through the street.    And Robert Lewis Dear, the suspect in the Colorado Planned Parenthood shooting  appearing in court today via video, Dear who only spoke once faces charges of  first degree murder in Friday's blood stand-off, three people killed in the  attack, an Iraq war veteran, a mother, and a police officer. Dear is being held  without bail and due back in court on December 9th. Police have not yet released  a motive.    And a brand new winter storm headed towards the plains and the great lakes, a  deadly thanksgiving weekend storm now beginning of winter weather for the middle  ever the country. At least 14 people are dead after snow swept in from Rocky  Mountains. Meteorologist estimates that another foot of snow could fall today.    And caught on camera, a stampede of 40 elephants storming through a village in  India, the giant animals destroying cops as villagers watched in horror, of  course, officials were able to call in to tranquilizer the elephants, but after  a few hours the beasts come back. In some cases these stampedes have turned  deadly, and that's tonight's speed read.    And Dr. Ben Carson has come under some fire for his lack of foreign policy  experience, but the 2016 GOP Presidential candidate just went to Jordan to go to  a refugee camp. Earlier this month, Dr. Carson was slammed for comparing the  need to screen refugees to protecting children from a rabid dog. So will the  surprise trip help Dr. Carson increase his image on foreign policy, and I want  know what you think. Was Dr. Carson's trip about policy or politics? Tweet  policy or tweet politics using #Greta. We will show you the results throughout  the show.    The On the Record political panel is back. Rick, policy or politics, is he going  to get hit by his opponents by this.   
RICK KLEIN, ABC NEWS POLITICAL DIRECTOR: It's politics, of course but it's actually really smart politics. If you are a candidate that says you don't know  about this or don't know much about that, so you that you are learning. That  made this a savvy trip over the thanksgiving weekend. People are not paying much  attention to politics. Go away and use your medical background, perhaps, use the  community to show that you're learning. You're coming back with some ideas. And  I think it only helps him. I think in the next debate, he's a little bit  prepared to answer that question about Syrian refugees. This is what I saw.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I think there is nothing like going to a refugee camp. You go to a refugee camp just once for just a couple hours, you will never forget it as long  as you live and you learn an awful lot, A.B.?   
A.B. STODDARD, THE HILL: I know. I agree with Rick. He is tweeting out pictures of him sitting on the floor with refugees, talking to them. It was thanksgiving.  He went on thanksgiving to be with them. And he obviously learned a lot more.  But he also has changed his tone. He says these people don't want to come here.  They are not trying to take over our country. And suck us dry and spend our  government dollars. They want to stay home and we have to make sure that they  have a place to be that's safe. And we need to make sure it's adequately funded.  It's definitely a different tone than was used before he went on the trip.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I look at the votes so far, 60 percent of our viewers - - keeping the vote open, 60 percent say it was policy -- 58 percent policy, 42 percent  says politics. I would expect it to change. And he actually, my experience has  been that people really would prefer to go home if home were safe. If you go  there, that's what you hear.   
KLEIN: Yeah. And he came away saying that most of the people there would rather go back, makes more sense to keep them in the region. We should be supporting  refugee programs in Jordan elsewhere in the Middle East. I still think the  number of refugees that we brought in this country slated to bring in very  small. Talk to the Jordanians about this they would say they would like the U.S.  to take on a bigger share. You don't see Dr. Carson espousing that.   
VAN SUSTEREN: But a lot of people talk about -- and President Obama doesn't like the idea but of a safe zone and Donald Trump says a safe zone, I think Dr. Ben  Carson saying a safe zone. A lot of them want to go back home if we made a real  protective space so they could go home.   
STODDARD: That's going to be an interesting argument in the Republican primary electorate. Right now what the candidates are talking about is don't let them  come here and possibly be infiltrated by radicals and potential terrorists. A  whole debate about how much money our government is going to invest overseas in  the Middle East to protect refugees in a safe zone in a totally lawless place  like Syria, which has two or more wars ongoing at the same time, that's going to  be an interesting discussion. And the political debate on the Republican side  and before the primary votes is passed. No one wants to talk about spending  money.   
VAN SUSTEREN: We hopefully on December 19th that the ABC News debate we will hear the Democratic side on that, right?   
KLEIN: A hundred percent. You have to get to the refugee issue. That's exactly it. About this safe zone you have to keep it safe, which means you have to go in  there and almost create a little city or village or maybe bigger than that a  state and keep it safe.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Rick, A.B., thank you both.   And if you support our police officers, you will want to hear what I want to  tell you off the record, next.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Just in time for Cyber Monday, online retail giant Amazon unveiling what could be the future of package delivery. These brand new  prototype drones can be used to get your order in 30 minutes. Amazon Prime Air  as they call it uses sensor technology to avoid potential obstacles on her way  to your front step. But people won't see them flying around your neighborhood,  at least not yet. In the meantime, Fox Business Network's Jolene Kent spent the  day at an Amazon warehouse learning how they sort all those packages.       
JOLENE KENT, FOX BUSINESS: Amazon has said to have a record Cyber Monday. Here is how it all works, 14 miles of conveyor belts processing more than 500  packages per second. And here inside this fulfillment center, well it's 28  football fields worth of space, 4,000 workers work inside this fulfillment  center 24 hours a day, full time workers. And they send it out. Over all, Cyber  Monday is slated to be very good, consumers on pace to spend $3 billion from  Walmart to Target to right here at Amazon. So far, looking very strong for  online ecommerce sales, Amazon though saying it can do even better this year  with revenue projected to be up 14 to 25 percent. Compared to last year, Greta?       
VAN SUSTEREN: Let's all go off-the-record, evil is what happened on Friday at the Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado. Domestic terrorism killing three  innocent people, including Officer Garrett Swasey who dared to do his job, run  towards danger to save lives. But sadly, he is not the only law enforcement  officer we mourn. There are more than 20,000 names etched on the National Law  Enforcement Memorial right here in D.C. And tonight, I want to make sure one  officer whose death did not get much national attention gets our attention.  Downey California Police Officer Ricky Galvez, 29-years-old and a former U.S.  Marine. Today was his funeral.    Officer Galvez was gunned down while simply sitting in his car in the parking  lot next to the Downey Police Headquarters. Also Galvez was a dog trainer in the  canine unit, 8 dogs were brought to his viewing services yesterday. Their  leashes were taken off and a tied to his casket. His family mourns, fellow law  officers mourn, all law enforcement mourns, and we mourn. I know Officer Swasey  and Galvez are not the only law enforcement officers who have been murdered. I  can't personally honor them all because the numbers are too staggering, but I  want to make sure we emphasize being a cop is a tough job, a dangerous job. Most  importantly, they need to know we appreciate them.    And that's my off-the-record comment tonight. And you have been voting on  twitter, was Dr. Carson's trip to the refugee camp about policy or politics.  Here are your results, 62 percent say policy, 38 percent say politics. And check  this out. This is a best tweeted picture of the day. That is Princess Charlotte.  Her mother Duchess Kate snapped that adorable photo of the six month old  Charlotte. And never miss my favorite tweeted pic of the day. Set your DVR to  record On the Record so you never miss the best tweeted pic of the day. If you  can't watch live play back On the Record after you watch your other favorite  program how about 11:01 each night. Thanks for being with us. We'll see you  again Monday night right here at 7:00 p.m. Eastern. Make sure you go to  Gretawire.com. Follow me on Facebook. There is so much behind the scenes going  on in social media it's unbelievable, On the Record. See you tomorrow night, up  next the O'Reilly Factor. Good night from Washington.   
