    
HIGHLIGHT: President Obama meets with the Turkish and Russian presidents separately. President Obama speaks at the climate change summit in Paris.     
 JIM ACOSTA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: -- the next few moments and talk about some of the progress that was made at this climate summit. As you know, Chris,  the president and these other world leaders, some 150 world leaders, are trying  to produce an agreement over the next couple of weeks that would essentially  bind nearly every country on earth to these goals of reducing carbon emissions  over the next decades in the hopes of reducing the growth and global  temperatures by two degrees Celsius. Scientists say that is critical to averting  some of the more catastrophic effects of climate change.    But as you know, Chris, the specter of ISIS, the specter of this war on  terrorism, it is hanging over everything at the summit. President Obama has to  devote much of his energies during his time here in Paris, almost playing  referee in this dispute that has been simmering between Russia and Turkey over  Turkey's shoot-down of that Russian bomber near the Turkish/Syria border last  week. Turkey's president Erdogan is not apologizing for that incident and  Russian president Vladimir Putin refused to meet with Erdogan during the summit.    And so President Obama met with Vladimir Putin yesterday. He met with Erdogan  earlier this morning, and it's pretty clear which side of this issue the  president comes down on. He is siding with the NATO ally Turkey, saying Turkey  has a right to defend its territory.    So it will be interesting to hear what the president has to say in just a few  moments. He'll be asked questions, I'm sure, about President Putin, President  Erdogan, how this has complicated this mission to go after ISIS, because, after  all, Chris, unless the president can deescalate the situation between Turkey and  Syria, unless the president and Vladimir Putin can come to terms on what to do  about Syria's leader Bashar al Assad, it is going to be difficult to accomplish  this goal that French President Francois Hollande has of this grand coalition to  go after ISIS, to retaliate against ISIS for those attacks in Paris a couple  weeks ago. Chris?   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: Absolutely true. Jim Acosta, thank you for setting the table for us. One big factor here is what will Russia do next? Will it move  toward or away from the coalition? The most recent proof of intentions is not  good. Let's bring in CNN's Barbara Starr live from the Pentagon. Barbara, what  can you tell us about this news that Russia moved surface-to-air missiles close  to the border with Turkey 
? BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Chris,good morning. These are the Russian S-400, a massive Russian surface-to-air missile system with a very powerful radar that will give the Russians the  capability now to basically target and potentially shoot at aircraft flying all  the way inside Turkey.    No one thinks they're targeting U.S. aircraft flying out of Turkey. The alleged  target would clearly be Turkish aircraft. That's the working assumption, that's  the message that the U.S. believes Russia is trying to send to Turkey. No  indication they're going to shoot down more aircraft, but it's a big worry on  the ground.    But the military reality now for U.S. pilots, set aside all the political  statements coming from podiums and cameras around the world. The military  reality for U.S. pilots flying in this airspace now is they must be very aware  of these Russian capabilities. Intentions are one thing, but the capabilities  means U.S. pilots need to be concerned, need to be aware there can always be an  accidental situation. A missile can lock on to an aircraft. Nobody wants to see  that happen. In just a couple of hours, the U.S. defense secretary, the chairman  of the Joint Chiefs will testify on Capitol Hill about is, about Syria, expect  them to get all these questions, Chris.   
CUOMO: OK, Barbara Starr also reporting that Russia's president, Vladimir Putin made the decision to move these missiles right after Russia's jet was shot down  by Turkey. Barbara, thank you very much.    Let's bring in chief international correspondent Christiane Amanpour. I mean,  Christiane be what other way can you look at Russia's moves? The only reason to  have the misses is to shoot things out of the sky. The only things in the sky  are coalition planes.   
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Chris, you know, people were very concerned about this when Vladimir Putin first announced  that he was bulling up a base in Latakia. First we heard about the missile  systems that were coming in and then personnel and then the base, and then at  the U.N. he declared that he was going to start bombing targets in Syria as  well. So they have missiles.    He's also playing very hardball with the Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip  Erdogan. They will not meet at this conference. Erdogan has tried. Putin has  said no. So he's doing muscle flexing for sure. In addition, he's banned -- the  whole system of no visas between Turkey and Russia. He's putting all sorts of  spot checks and stopping goods flowing from Turkey into Russia, produce and  other such stuff. So he is making his move to try to face down what happened.     But it would be hard to imagine deliberate shooting out of the sky of  more airplanes. But it is also very important to remember that Russia is not in  a coalition with the United States and its allies. It just isn't. They have  different targets. They're not on the same side of this equation. And even  though they are trying, the U.S., to bring in the political situation around  some kind of transition for Syria, that is going to take a long time. And it has  only been very recently that Russia has turned its bombers away from, you know,  anti-Assad groups such as the Free Syrian Army and more towards ISIS. And that  was really only viewed after the ISIS affiliate shot down the Russian plane.    So they're not really a coalition right now. And that is complicating the fight  against ISIS in Syria, not to mention the fight against Bashar al Assad.   
CUOMO: And obviously that driving these meetings we heard about here in Paris. Obviously President Obama here to discuss climate change and what can be done,  the politics of that tricky enough for him. Not only does he have to try and get  international cooperation, but he has a good fight on his hands at home in  America on this issue.    We get word that he did meet with Turkey's president, that he did meet with  Russia's president. Obviously his mission so try to conciliate. He did say we  are told and we are reporting that he asked both men to focus on a common enemy  of ISIS. We are showing you the podium here because we do expect President Obama  to take it any moment now and give his reckoning of what he was able to do here  in Paris vis-a-vis the climate talks as well as this all important war against  ISIS.    Jim Acosta, in terms of what the president has been putting out through his  people and himself while here, how much of an indication of progress do you  think he can give on the basis of climate and on the basis of what he was able  to do with Turkey and Russia?   
ACOSTA: Well, one thing we are hearing from administration officials, Chris, is that they are hopeful that Vladimir Putin is going to stick to this diplomatic  process for political transition in Syria. They see that as the linchpin to  really ending the civil war in Syria if they can somehow transition to a  government that does not involve Bashar al Assad. Of course Putin is not ready  to go along with that just yet. But if they can have a post-Assad regime in  Syria, then the thinking goes inside the administration is that perhaps  somewhere down the road the U.S. and its coalition could get behind that  government and go after these ISIS terrorists.    But that is so far down the road, as Christiane was indicating. This is a  multistep process. And so the president is having to deal with delicate  diplomatic problems here in terms of president Putin who has to show strength to  the public back in Moscow.    Turkey did shoot down one of its aircraft. The remains of the pilot of that  aircraft were brought back to Russia and given full military honors and was  welcomed as a hero. And so this is difficult for President Obama to navigate.    At the same time we should mention this climate summit is seen as a legacy  defining issue for President Obama. Inside the administration, they see this as  one of the top domestic achievements of his administration. The question is, how  far does this climate agreement go? Will it be legally binding? We heard the  president say earlier this year it might be legally binding.   
BARACK OBAMA,PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Once again, I want to thank the people of France and President Hollande for their extraordinary hospitality.  Hosting nearly 200 nations is an enormous task for anybody, but to do so just  two weeks after the terrorist attacks here is a remarkable display of resolve.    And that's why the first place I visited when I arrived on Sunday night was the  Bataclan so that I could pay my respects on behalf of the American people who  share the French people's resolve. It was a powerful reminder of the awful human  toll of those attacks. Our hearts continue to go out to the victims' families.    But here in Paris we also see the resilience of the universal values we share,  liberty, equality, fraternity. And based on my discussions with President  Hollande and other leaders, I am confident that we can continue building  momentum and adding resources to our effort to degrade and ultimately destroy  ISIL, to disrupt plots against America and our allies, and to bring about the  political resolution necessary to resolve the situation in Syria and relieve the  hardships on the Syrian people.     Now, this has been a quick visit. Of course all visits to Paris seem  quick. You always want to stay a little bit longer. But we have accomplished a  lot here. And I have high hopes that over the next two weeks we'll accomplish  even more.    I know some have asked why the world would dedicate some of our focus right now  to combating climate change even as we work to protect our people and go after  terrorist networks. The reason is because this one trend, climate change,  affects all trends. If we let the world keep warming as fast as it is, and sea  levels rising as fast as they are, and weather patterns keep shifting in more  unexpected ways, then before long we are going to have to devote more and more  and more of our economic and military resources not to growing opportunity for  our people but to adapting to the various consequences of a changing planet.    This is an economic and security imperative that we have to tackle now. And  great nations can handle a lot at once. America's already leading on many issues  and climate is no different. We've made significant progress at home, increasing  production of clean energy, working to reduce emissions while our businesses  have kept creating jobs for 68 straight months and we've been able to lower our  unemployment rate to five percent in the process.    And since we worked with China last year to show that the two largest economies  and two largest emitters can cooperate on climate, more than 180 countries have  followed our lead in announcing their own targets.    The task that remains here in Paris is to turn these achievements into an  enduring framework for progress that gives the world confidence in a low carbon  future. As I said yesterday, what we seek is an agreement where progress paves  the way for countries to update their emissions targets on a regular basis, and  each nation has the confidence that other nations are meeting their commitments.    We seek an agreement that makes sure developing nations have the resources they  need to skip the dirty phase of development if they're willing to do their part  and that make sure that the nations most vulnerable to climate change have  resources to adapt to the impacts we can no longer avoid.    We seek an agreement that gives businesses and investors the certainty that the  global economy is on a firm path towards a low carbon future because that will  spur the kind of investment that will be vital to combine reduced emissions with  economic growth. And that's the goal, not just an agreement to roll back the  pollution that threatens our planet, but an agreement that helps our economies  grow and our people thrive without condemning the next generation to a planet  that's beyond its capacity to repair.    Now, all of this will be hard. Getting 200 nations to agree on anything is hard.  And I'm sure there will be moments over the next two weeks where progress seems  stymied and everyone rushes to write that we are doomed. But I am convinced that  we are going to get big things done here.    Keep in mind nobody expected that 180 countries would show up in Paris with  serious climate targets in hand. Nobody expected that the price of clean energy  would fall as fast as it has or that back in the United States the solar  industry would be creating jobs ten times faster than the rest of the economy.  Nobody expected that more than 150 of America's biggest companies would pledge  their support to an ambitious Paris outcome or that a couple of dozen of the  world's wealthiest private citizens would join us here to pledge to invest  unprecedented resources to bring clean energy technologies to market faster.    What gives me confidence that progress is possible is somebody like Bill Gates,  who I was with yesterday, understands that tackling climate change is not just a  moral imperative, it's an opportunity. Without batting an eye he said we're just  going to have to go ahead and invent some new technologies to tackle this  challenge. That kind of optimism, that kind of sense that we can do what is  necessary, is infectious. And you tend to believe somebody like Bill when he  says that we're going to get it done since he's done some pretty remarkable  things. And I believe that a successful two weeks here can give the world that  same kind optimism that the future is ours to shape.     So with that, I'm going to take a few questions. We'll start with  Jerome Gartilliaof AP. Where's Jerome? There he is.   
QUESTION: Good morning, sir, and thank you, Mr. President.  
OBAMA: Yes.  
QUESTION: For months now you've been asking Mr. Putin to play basically a more constructive role in Syria, basically shifting from defending Assad to attacking  ISIL. It appears your calls have not been heard.    What's your strategy going forward?   
OBAMA: Well, I'm not sure that's true. The fact that the Vienna process is moving forward steadily -- not conclusively but steadily -- I think is an  indication that Mr. Putin recognizes there is not going to be a military  resolution to the situation in Syria.    The Russians now have been there now for several weeks, over a month. And I  think fair-minded reporters, who have looked at the situation, would say that  the situation hasn't changed significantly.    In the interim, Russia's lost a commercial passenger jet. You've seen another  jet shot down. There have been losses in terms of Russian personnel. And I think  Mr. Putin understands that, with Afghanistan fresh in the memory, for him to  simply get bogged down in a inconclusive and paralyzing civil conflict is not  the outcome that he's looking for.    Now, where we continue to have an ongoing difference is not on the need for a  political settlement; it's the issue of whether Mr. Assad can continue to serve  as president while still bringing that civil war to an end. It's been my  estimation for five years now that that's not possible.    Regardless of how you feel about Mr. Assad -- and I consider somebody who kills  hundreds of thousands of his own people illegitimate -- but regardless of the  moral equation, as a practical matter, it is impossible for Mr. Assad to bring  that country together and to bring all the parties into an inclusive government.    It is possible, however, to preserve the Syrian state, to have an inclusive  government where the interests of the various groups inside of Syria are  represented.    And so as part of the Vienna process, you're going to see the opposition groups,  the moderate opposition groups that exist within Syria -- some of which,  frankly, you know, we don't have a lot in common with, but do represent  significant factions inside of Syria -- they'll be coming together in order for  them to form at least a negotiating unit or process that can move Vienna  forward.    And we're going to just keep on working at this. And my hope and expectation is  that that political track will move at the same time as we continue to apply  greater and greater pressure on ISIL.    And, with the contributions that the French have made, the Germans have recently  announced additional resources to the fight, the Brits have been steady partners  in Iraq and I think are now very interested in how they can expand their efforts  to help deal with ISIL inside of Syria.    With not just the cohesion of the coalition that the United States put together  but also the increasing intensity of our actions in the air and progressively on  the ground, you know, I think it is possible, over the next several months, that  we both see a shift in calculation in the Russians and a recognition that it's  time to bring the civil war in Syria to a close.    It's not going to be easy. Too much blood has been shed. Too much infrastructure  has been destroyed. Too many people have been displaced for us to anticipate  that it will be a smooth transition.     And ISIL is going to continue to be a deadly organization because of  its social media, the resources that it has and the networks of experienced  fighters that it possesses. It's going to continue to be a serious threat for  some time to come.    But I'm confident that we are on the winning side of this and that ultimately,  Russia's going to recognize the threat that ISIL poses to its country, to its  people, is the most significant and that they need to align themselves with  those of us who are fighting ISIL.    Justin Sink?   
QUESTION: Thanks, Mr. President. I guess I wanted to follow on that shift in calculation that you discussed with -- in terms of President Putin. Did you  receive assurances from either him or President Hollande, who said earlier this  week that President Putin had told him he would only target jihadis and ISIS,  that that would be the focus of Russia's military campaign going forward?    And then separately, I just wanted to ask about climate. The outstanding issue  seems to be whether Republicans who have kind of voiced opposition to your  agenda could somehow submarinefunding for the Green Climate Fund, it's a  pretty crucial part here. So I'm wondering both how you prevent that in the  upcoming appropriations process and if you're at all concerned about what  Senator McConnell said earlier today or yesterday, that a future Republican  could undo what you're trying to accomplish here in Paris?   
OBAMA: First of all, on Mr. Putin, I don't expect that you're going to see a 180 turn on their strategy over the next several weeks. They have invested, for  years now, in keeping Assad in power. Their presence there is predicated on  propping him up, and so that's going to take some time for them to change how  they think about the issue.    And so long as they are aligned with the regime, a lot of Russian resources are  still going to be targeted at opposition groups that ultimately are going to end  up being part of an inclusive government, that we support or other members of  the coalition support and are fighting the regime and fighting ISIL at the same  time.    So I don't think we should be under any illusions that somehow Russia starts  hitting only ISIL targets. That's not happening now. It was never happening.  It's not going to be happening in the next several weeks. What can happen is if  the political process that John Kerry has so meticulously stitched together, in  concert with Foreign Minister Lavrov of Russia. If that works in Vienna, then  it's possible, given the existing accord that the parties have already agreed  to, that we start seeing at least pockets of cease-fires in and around Syria.    That may mean then that certain opposition groups no longer find themselves  subject to either Syrian or Russian bombing. They are then in a conversation  about politics. And slowly, we then are able to get everybody's attention  diverted to where it needs to be, and that is going after ISIL in a systematic  way.    With respect to climate and what's taking place here, I don't want to get ahead  of ourselves. We still need a Paris agreement. So my main focus is making sure  that the United States is a leader in bringing a successful agreement home here  in Paris, and there are a number of components to it. So I just want to repeat,  so that everybody understands what we will consider success several weeks from  now.     Number one, that it is an ambitious target that seeks low carbon,  global economy over the course of this century. That means that countries have  put forward specific targets and although those are self-generating, there is a  mechanism in which they are presenting to the world confirmation that they are  working on those targets, meeting on those targets, so there's a single  transparency mechanism that all countries are adhering to.    And that those are legally binding, that there's periodic reviews, so that as  the science changes and as technology changes, five years from now, 10 years  from now, 15 years from now, in each successive cycle, countries can update the  pledges that they make.    And that we've got a climate fund that helps developing countries to not only  adapt and mitigate but also leap frog over dirty power generation in favor of  clean energy.    And if we hit those targets, then we will have been successful, not because, by  the way, the pledges alone will meet the necessary targets for us to prevent  catastrophic climate change, but because we will have built the architecture  that's needed.    We will have established a global consensus of how we're going to approach the  problem and then we can successfully turn up the dials as new sources of energy  become available, as the unit cost for something like solar or improvements in  battery technology make it easier for us to meet even higher targets and  systematically we can drive down carbon emissions and the pace of climate change  over the course of several decades.    So I want to emphasize this because I know that in some of the reporting, if you  add up all the pledges and they were all met right now, we would be at an  estimated 2.7 centigrade increase in temperature. That's too high.    We wanted to get 2 centigrade or even lower than that. But if we have these  periodic reviews built in, what I believe will happen is that by sending that  signal to researchers and scientists and investors and entrepreneurs and venture  funds, we'll actually start hitting these targets faster than we expected and we  can be even more ambitious.    And so, when you look at the cumulative targets that may exist ten years from  now, we may well be within the 2 percent centigrade increase. And by the way,  that's not just foolish optimism. When you look at the experience of the United  States, for example, I came into office. I prioritized clean energy.    I said we're going to double our clean energy production through the Recovery  Act. We recognized that making these big investments were also good for the  economy and helping us get out of recession and could create jobs, so we made a  big investment. And it turned out that we met our goals a lot quicker than we  expected.    If you had asked me when I first came into office my expectations for the price  of solar generated power versus traditional coal or other fossil fuel generated  power, I would say we would make some progress but that solar would still  require substantial subsidies in order to be economical.    The cost of solar has gone down much faster than any of us would have predicted  even five years ago. So the key here is to set up the structure so that we're  sending signals all around the world. This is happening. We're not turning back.    And the thing about human ingenuity, I was going to say American ingenuity, but  there are other smart folks around too. Don't want to be too parochial about  this. The thing about human ingenuity is that it responds when it gets a strong  signal of what needs to be done.    The old expression that necessity is the mother of invention. Well this is  necessary. And us getting a strong, high ambition agreement in place, even if it  doesn't meet all the goals that we ultimately need to meet, sends a signal that  it's necessary. And that will spur on the innovation that is going to ultimately  meet our goals.   
