    
HIGHLIGHT: Three men with what appeared to be long rifles leaving that scene with the black SUV. People inside the facility are now moving out of the  building for a safer area.     
 DEBORAH FEYERICK, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Three men with what appeared to be long rifles leaving that scene. And they are now  looking for a black SUV right now, Brooke.   
BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN HOST: So just so I'm clear, Deb, when you're talking about, you know, these suspects in a black SUV, are we talking about after the  shooting, meaning they escaped?   
FEYERICK: This is after the shooting. I'm being told by a source that this was after the shooting. They left after the shooting, and one of them may have left  behind some sort of a device. That's what the bomb squad right now is focused on  in the south building, is what I'm being told.   
BALDWIN: OK. Deborah Feyerick with some new information from her sources. Art Roderick is also with us, former U.S. marshal current CNN law enforcement  analyst.    So, Art, according to Deb's sources, you have these, according to witnesses,  three suspects leaving the scene in a black SUV. That's number one. Number two,  that they left some sort of suspicious package, which would explain the ATF's  presence on the scene and also some sort of contraption being wheeled in, I  presume some sort of explosive --   
HARRY HOUCK, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Yes. Some kind of device that the bomb disposal unit utilizes to be able to check out a package.   
BALDWIN: OK. Harry, thank you.   Art, can you tell me about those two points.   
ARTHUR RODERICK, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Yes. What's scary about this is, what is the motivation for three heavily armed men being possibly wearing body  armor, to show up at this facility and start shooting people and then leave a  package behind?    I mean, this is scary. Whenever I hear one of these, I always pray that it's one  shooter and it's, you know, somebody that's got mental health problems. When you  start talking about multiple shooters heavily armed, possibly wearing body armor  in a black SUV making an escape and leaving a package behind, this sounds to me  like it's very well planned, obviously a conspiracy, and could be somewhat  terrorism related 
. BALDWIN: At a center, Art, that helps the community withdisability and special needs. This is who was targeted.  
HOUCK: Easy target.  
RODERICK: Yes. Soft target, exactly. And that's what these individuals look for. They knew they weren't going to encounter any resistance whatsoever. They went  in, they did a quick hit, had to have high-powered, high-capacity rounds to  injure that many people in that short period of time, leave a device behind, and  then split. This is not good.   
RODERICK: Art, is on the money here. They were able to go in there, do the attack and come out and escape and leave a package at the same time. This is  definitely a well-planned attack. Wearing body armor, heavily armed. Art is  right on the money here. We are looking at some something that's totally  different than anything we have seen in the United States.   
BALDWIN: So now what? Because you have three in an SUV.  
HOUCK: They could be on their way somewhere else right now.  
BALDWIN: That's my point.  
HOUCK: Exactly.  
BALDWIN: So now what?  
RODERICK: Well, I mean, the type of facility, one thing you know they are going to have a pretty good surveillance system. Because of that, you know you're  dealing with disabled children, they probably have a lot of different cameras so  that these kids don't, you know, leave their premises without anybody knowing  it. So here where license plate readers and all those types of things that the  police has, they could be punching these numbers in right now and the hunt could  be on right now as we speak.   
BALDWIN: Checkpoints in the area? What are you doing if you're police in San Bernardino?   
HOUCK: Toll booths. Putting all the information out there, you know. Everybody's cell phone is beeping right now, you know, after putting out an alert to look  for this vehicle. I'm sure they have got road blocks in certain sections,  depending on the amount of time that this vehicle has been gone. They are going  to probably disturb at a certain amount of speed, how far could they have gone.  And then they have to cordon the area off and they got to get these guys because  there is a good possibility these guys are on their way to either another attack  or they are going to do one tomorrow or the next day, scary situation.   
BALDWIN: It is entirely scary. Lunchtime of what was a normal workday on a Wednesday in San Bernardino, California. We're hearing from more witnesses now.  Take a listen.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You got a text message.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Said that someone had come in and started shooting and they ran into an office and she's hiding with some other people. And our friend's  daughter is in there, too. She texted and so they're both hiding.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As we speak.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's all I know.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is she still hearing gunshots?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She didn't say anything about gunshots. But someone I think must have told her because she never said she heard gunshots, but somehow she  knew -- she said 10 to 20 people were shot.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where does she work?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know the name of the place, but it's a government agency that helps people deal with health care stuff.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Has she seen any victims down?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No. She hasn't said anything about that. She's been hiding.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I imagine you must be really concerned right now.  
 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is this your daughter?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Who's hiding in there?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What did she say to you? She sent you some texts?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She did.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What did she say?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She said, shooting at my work, people shot. In the office waiting for cops.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But she's OK.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pray for us.      
BALDWIN: Pray for us from one man's daughter holed up in this building. This shouldn't be happening. We know the governor of California Jerry Brown has been  briefed. And as I mentioned the president of the United States has been briefed  as well.    Three suspects according to sources after the shooting. And after leaving  apparently a suspicious package on the second floor of this facility that treats  those with disabilities and special needs in this community have left, have left  in a black SUV. And also according to sources, they were using long rifles.  Here's more sound.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was just walking out and this lady and a couple others heard shots. And I heard from over there. But then I started walking and all of  a sudden I got into chaos. Who knows? Just boom. And then, you know, I'm just  like, wow, right in the middle of it. And she was right behind the building. So  we're waiting for the bus. That's how I transfer. I have a brain disorder so I  can't drive. Yes, it is kind of scary.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Paul, can you plug your phone number into my phone? Hold on for one second. My daughter is in there right now. She works in there.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's just -- You don't know where the shots came from.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hold on for one second.      
BALDWIN: OK. So local reporters, we're dipping into other coverage. I just want to be totally transparent with you. That's what we are looking at. Other  pictures here now from the ground, fire, EMS, law enforcement, you have local,  you have ATF, FBI all responding here to the scene, making sure all these people  are getting out safely from this facility in San Bernardino. Do I have Sanjay,  guys?   
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. I'm here.  
BALDWIN: OK. Let me bring in our chief medical correspondent, Sanjay Gupta.   Sanjay, I mean, here you now have the medical threat of this story, gunshot  wounds. We saw the triage, here you go, from the air. You can see the pictures  of the triage area being set up outside this facility. How does this hospital  Loma Linda University medical center, how do they handle this?   
GUPTA: This is becoming a situation that, unfortunately, many of these hospitals have started to try and train for. Several things, Brooke.    First of all, how to basically try and take care of people or at least get  people in a situation that is still active. I mean, typically -- in the past,  people always talk about keeping first responder personnel in what are known as  cold areas until they were secure. You can't do that. It can take too long to  get to people who need help. Second of all, I think, Brooke, as you just  mentioned, setting up triage areas on-site. There's always been this idea that  get people quickly to a hospital. But again, sometimes that's not possible  because there may be too many people that need to go there. Or because the  situation is just not secure enough to make that happen. So actually being able  to take care of people on-site.    And then you have a level one trauma center. It is a big hospital that can be  able to take care of a lot of patients. They are prepping. They are pulling  people in, personnel I'm sure. They have some redundancy in the hospital that  they are going to try to take advantage of in terms of beds and operating rooms  and all of that. But that is an ongoing situation. That's what happens in these  hospitals as soon as they start to hear about this.   
BALDWIN: Sanjay, let me get you to stand by here as we are getting more eyewitness sound there on the ground from San Bernardino. Let's listen to that.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- inside the building. I talked to the police. There are casualties.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What did your daughter tell you?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She told me that she thought it was a drill because they have been practicing drills. They went outside. They were told to go back in. She was  shuttled into a room. Police showed up. They were taken outside. Thank God there  weren't more casualties.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did she text or call?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's outside with the fire department right now.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did she text you earlier?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She just text me right now.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And what did she say about what she saw and what she heard?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, she wasn't too clear. She's shaken up. And I did ask a police lady, and she said that there were some casualties.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What did she see?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I haven't talked to her about that. She's pretty shaken up.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And you said you heard something?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. We both -- I got the wrong bus. I was going home. I was racing over to go to the bus going up, and I turned - Boom! Boom! Boom! Then all  of a sudden, boom 
.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Exactly. Boom! Boom! Boom!Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom!  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They said they're on the loose.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. I was right behind the building. And I heard all the shots.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I started walking down by the outback, people out there heard. I don't know what's going on here, but I'm kind of scared to see people.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You don't have friends, family?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No. I have a disability myself. I just -- I know kind of where it was at. Like I said, I was in the area and heard Boom! Boom! Boom!   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What goes on at that facility?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, it's all --  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's an inland valley regional center.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No. It's a regional for disables -- disabilities.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They coordinate bus rides and things?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. Coordinate bus rides for people with disabilities.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: From what you know, your --  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My loved one is safe. We need to do something. This is crazy. There's just too many shootings, too much bad stuff going on here. You hear  about it.       
BALDWIN: Too much bad stuff. These shootings are happening far too often. What seems to make this different from some of the other shootings we have been  covering is the fact that there are three, according to police, three different  shooters or suspects. And not only did they commit this heinous crime at  lunchtime in San Bernardino in this facility that treats, you know, folks with  disabilities and special needs in the community, they left. So that's obviously  a concern. And they were armed to the "T." They had body armor, prepared, long  guns, according to law enforcement and they left a suspicious package.    I have Elizabeth Mendieta on the phone. Elizabeth works across the street with a  school for the blind.    Elizabeth, let me just be the first to say, our hearts go out to all of you  there in San Bernardino. I'm so sorry this is happening. Tell me, are you OK?  What are you seeing? ELIZABETH MENDIETA, WORKS ACROSS FROM SHOOTING SCENE (on  the phone): We are OK. We are just across the street from where all the events  are happening. But we are in lockdown by order of the police so all of our  students are safe here. And all of our students are physically impaired. They  can't see. They're blind.   
BALDWIN: Right.  
MENDIETA: So we're trying to keep them calm so they can, you know, not get too nervous and then have medical issues in here. So we are trying to do the best  that we can and then listen to the police. A couple of our drivers did witness  the shooting and a couple of the employees were able to run through our building  and be, you know, take protection. So we helped them out. And then the police,  they took them to where they could be interviewed for more details. But as far  as the school is concerned, it's on lockdown and we are all safe in here tore  now.   
BALDWIN: I'm glad you're safe in there, Elizabeth. I know, of course, your children are blind. Are you able to see?   
MENDIETA: Yes. I'm a driver. I transport the students. There's really no minors in here. Most of them are senior citizens.   
BALDWIN: OK.  
MENDIETA: So they are all elderly, but they are all safe.  
BALDWIN: So outside -- I don't know if they told you to stay away from glass or the front of your facility.   
MENDIETA: Yes.  
BALDWIN: But can you just tell me more about this area here, this south waterman and orange shell road?   
MENDIETA: Yes. Park center is like a horseshoe street. It goes in one side and, you know, coming all the way around. So all the businesses that are on this  street right here are basically locked down. We can't get out. Waterman is  closed at the orange shell all the way to hospitality lane. So there is no  traffic currently being allowed because the police, the SWAT, the investigators,  the detectives, they have taken over the whole facility so they are protecting  every single business that is in this horseshoe of park center circle.   
BALDWIN: I understand. I was talking to some women who work at the charter school just around the area. They were describing the 450 kindergarten through  eighth graders that are currently on lockdown where they are. Have you gotten  any guidance from law enforcement, how long they anticipate? I mean, could this  go for hours into the late afternoon for you? Do you have any idea?   
MENDIETA: I have no idea. They just told us to lock all the doors. Do not let anybody in or out unless it's an officer. And we are waiting for their call to  see when they - we have got to take these people back home. So we have to wait  on them to let us know it's safe for us to move the people. So right now we're  just waiting for more instructions.   
 BALDWIN: I understand. Elizabeth, thank you so much for taking the time. I appreciate it. I want you to go back and please be with the people who  are in your care.    Harry Houck, go ahead.   
HOUCK: I look at this area here, and I'm talking - thinking about the escape, this area was probably picked for that - also for that specific reason. It  looked like they knew they could get out of the area pretty quickly, get on to a  main road and get out of there. Now, this is so well planned. I would suspect  that we are going to find that black SUV somewhere. They are going to switch  vehicles.   
BALDWIN: You mean we'll find the SUV without the shooters.  
HOUCK: It's so well planned. There's a good chance they've dumped the car because they know the police will stop every black SUV you see within a 20-mile  area, alright. So, looking at the plan and exactly how they conducted this whole  operation, we are probably going to find that black SUV abandoned somewhere. And  of course, hopefully we will be able to find some evidence.   
BALDWIN: Hopefully they will quickly find those shooters as well.   Kristin Myricks is joining the conversation. She actually works at this center  there in San Bernardino where the shooting took place. Kristin, can you hear me?   
KRISTIN MYRICKS, EMPLOYEE IN CENTER WHERE SHOOTING TOOK PLACE: Yes, I can.   
BALDWIN: Kristin, let me get this straight. This happened at your workplace. You didn't go to work today.   
MYRICKS: Yes. I think I would rather be sick today than be there. I have been in contact with a couple of co-workers. I do hate they're having to go through  this. But I'm glad I wasn't there today.   
BALDWIN: Can you tell me what those co-workers have shared with you, if you don't mind?   
MYRICKS: They don't really know much either. All I know is they were evacuated and that there was an event going on in one of the buildings there on the  campus. They think it had something to do or the person was somehow with the  event. That's all we know.   
BALDWIN: Do you know about the event? Any more about that?  
MYRICKS: No, I don't. This time of year we have lots of events going on there.  
BALDWIN: Tell me more about the community you serve. I understand there's several hundred people who work at inland regional center. Tel me more about the  services you provide to San Bernardino and Riverside counties.   
MYRICKS: We provide services for the developmentally disabled. We help them with housing and with programs, and we have clients that are from infant to elderly.   
BALDWIN: In terms of this building, in order to go to work, talk to me about security.   
MYRICKS: We have badges. There are gates. You know, we all have to swipe our badges in order to get not only into the campus but into each building. It's  tight.   
BALDWIN: Metal detectors? Anything like that?  
MYRICKS: No, no detectors.  
BALDWIN: I understand there were alarms going off and that there were drills, I was hearing from a father whose daughter works in the building that you have  been going through drills. And I didn't know if it was for a case like this or  something else. But is that the case?   
MYRICKS: We always do. I mean, they are very, very good about staying on top of, you know, fire drills. We do have what we call active shooter training.   
BALDWIN: You do.  
MYRICKS: Yes, we do.  
BALDWIN: When did that begin?  
MYRICKS: It started last year. Started last year. And I do think they are going through the rounds now with that training.   
BALDWIN: So active shooter training happening at your workplace. And here we have potentially three active shooters at lunchtime on what should have been a  normal day. What about cameras in your building, Kristin? Do you have cameras  throughout your workplace?   
MYRICKS: I don't know. I don't know. There are people that think we have cameras. There are people there aren't cameras. I don't really know.   
BALDWIN: And how many people work in your building?  
MYRICKS: It's hard to say. Again, there are three buildings on the campus and then there's another building in riverside. So I do know there are over 600  employees total, but I don't know exactly how many employees are in each  building.   
BALDWIN: And I don't know if you've flipped on the television, but you know, there we have been watching pictures over the last hour and a half of your  co-workers walking out hands up in the air. And I don't know if you've been able  to recognize the specific building from where they have been exiting. Can you  tell me more about that 
?  MYRICKS: I recognize some faces.
BALDWIN: You have?  
MYRICKS: They have evacuated looks like all buildings or they are doing all buildings. I don't know. I can't tell, you know, if everyone is out or not. But  I recognize faces from more than one building, I'll say that.   
BALDWIN: You have.  
MYRICKS: Yes.  
BALDWIN: And this was, you know, lunchtime. What would people be doing on campus in these different buildings around 11:00, 12:00?   
MYRICKS: Some people like they walk around the campus. There is a nice trail around the campus. Some people take walks. Some people, you know, just have  lunch there on campus. Some leave for lunch of course. And this intersection is  -- I mean, you have to come out of this intersection to leave the campus. So  anybody that would have done anything would have been effected by this.   
BALDWIN: How many gates are there?  
MYRICKS: I can't tell you right now. I mean -- yes.  
BALDWIN: Just wondering if there would be different entry and exit points within the parking lot for the shooters to gain access. And so it's interesting to me  that you are saying you have to have a badge to badge in. Obviously someone  could have gotten someone else's badge or who knows how someone could have --  you know, by force gotten through these gates.   
MYRICKS: You don't need a pass to get into the parking lot. But from the parking lot into the building or into the gates you definitely need a badge.   
BALDWIN: I understand. Kristin Myricks, thank you so much for your time. I'm so sorry about your colleagues. But glad you weren't at work today. Please feel  better and thank you for your time.    Sanjay Gupta is still with us, our chief medical correspondent.    I understand, Sanjay, you have some new information, go ahead.   
GUPTA: Well, we are hearing that one of the busiest hospitals sort of in the area is arrowhead regional medical center. This is a -- they have a busy ER.  They are a level two trauma center.    What we are hearing, Brooke, is that they have taken patients into that hospital  now. We are hearing from an employee of the hospital that eight victims have  arrived there and that the hospital, which is several miles away itself, is on  lockdown. OK. So eight patients taken there. Several miles away. And that the  hospital itself is on lockdown. We're just hearing this from someone who's  employed at the hospital. Trying to get more information about other hospitals  in the area. But that's sort of the first that we're hearing of where the  victims are going and how the hospitals themselves are reacting.   
BALDWIN: So the fact, Sanjay, that the hospital is on lockdown -- I was just talking to an employee at the center where the shooting took place and she said  as recent as the last year, you know, sadly places across the country are, you  know, these shootings are happening. People are, you know, undergoing active  shooting training and drills as they have been doing. So what about a hospital?  I mean, if we know that these three individuals, these suspects are essentially  on the loose, what does that mean for a hospital?   
GUPTA: Well, it means several things. Sadly, Brooke, as we are talking about, first of all, the training that takes place in many of these hospitals  oftentimes includes training for situations like these. The first responders who  leave the hospital going to scenes where there is still an active scene as they  call it. They oftentimes have to try and get to the victims even during these  active scenes. It involves learning and being trained to somehow protect  themselves with the assistance of police in the area, but also the hospital  themselves.    This is a scene where they basically want to be able to take care of people, but  want to make sure they can protect the personnel, protect the victims that are  coming in and obviously the existing patients. So they have protocols for these  sorts of things, Brooke. You don't think about hospitals needing these sorts of  protocols.   
BALDWIN: You sure don't.  
GUPTA: We haven't thought about this in the past, but they do. They need these sorts of protocols. You asked earlier about metal detectors, for example. In  other facilities, most hospitals don't have metal detectors. They are very open  facilities. But a lockdown basically changes that at least for a temporary time  so that you can try and best secure the hospital. Make sure that the staff,  nurses, doctors who are taking care of the patients can do it as safely as  possible. And that can be a place where victims can continue to come.    We know that this particular area has good, you know, busy hospitals, trauma  hospitals. They can take care of these patients if they can get to them if the  patients can get there quickly enough in safe condition.   
BALDWIN: Sanjay Gupta on the phone with us reporting that eight victims have been taken to the hospital, the arrowhead regional medical center. As he has  been reporting, even the hospital itself on lockdown.    Sanjay, thank you so much.    And I have Joe Jackloneand Harry Houck here with me, formerly New York  police department.    And so, this is what I want to hone in on with you two because here we now have  a situation. Obviously, hospitals are tending to the wounded. We still don't  know if there are fatalities. We don't have numbers yet. This is all really  truly still happening. You also have these three individuals according to police  who use long guns, left some sort of suspicious package inside of this facility  and left in this SUV. So now you have the issue of finding these three. Talk  about what police are doing to find them.   
 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, you have got two different investigations going on here. You have an active crime scene in one place.   
BALDWIN: In the facility.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But it has to be cleared first before any bomb threats or anything else. And then you have the hunt. So you are going to have two separate  investigations going on here. I mean, when you look at this place on the map, I  mean, it looks like it might have been chosen because it's pretty remote. And  it's not too far from one of the parkways either. I mean, you have a golf course  on one side. You are surrounded by water on the other side. So might not be much  commercial area around there where other surveillance video or red light cameras  might be at play. So you know, law enforcement's got their work cut out for them  on this one.   
BALDWIN: I understand I have Kyung Lah. Kyung Lah is now standing by, our correspondent there in San Bernardino on the scene.    Kyung, tell me what you are seeing?   
KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brooke, on our way here and we are at the blockage. This is where the police are not letting media go any further. We saw  a number of police cars leaving the scene. We saw ambulances arriving. What you  see over my shoulder is basically the scene down there. That is the roadway that  leads to the IRC. You can't quite see the building. We are told that the people  who were inside are being move out of the building. A SWAT clears that building  and they are slowly being interviewed. But we are just arriving here and we are  starting to hear from people who actually heard all of this happen.    This is Lelani and Alan. And tell me what you heard?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was sitting along the field on a rock behind us here. And I heard rapid shooting. Just Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! And honestly I  thought, God, somebody was hunting. And I was frightened because, my God, I saw  a chair there, ice chest there, so I thought, they are going to come out and  start shooting, you know, at just random people. And so, I was very frightened.  And I was right behind the building where the shooting was sitting the right  along the field there. So I heard everything.   
LAH: And you're still shaking there.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.  
LAH: The sound, did it appear the gunshots were coming from outside or inside a building 
? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It actually sounded like it was from outside thebuilding.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was outside, yes. Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! I was walking down from here --   
SGT. VICKI CERVANTES, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: To go to the Hernandez center here in San Bernardino. It's at third and sierra way. We will meet with  the family members there and be able to determine where their loved ones are or  their friends and try to get them reunited at that point.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE REPORTER: Now, there's been talk about a shooting going on inside of the conference room in one of these buildings at the regional center.  What was happening inside that conference room?   
CERVANTES: I don't have information on that. I was only told that there was an event there today. And during that event multiple people entered the room and  began shooting. There is one report that a shooter or these shooters have left  in a black SUV. But I don't know that that's been confirmed.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE REPORTER: So based on what the witnesses are saying and have told law enforcement, it is now confirmed that there is more than one shooter?   
CERVANTES: It appears there is more than one shooter. Again, being down here I don't know all the intricacies, but that was the latest update that I received.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE REPORTER: And can you describe the attire of the shooters? There's been talk that they looked as though they might have had a uniform on  but then others were describing it kind of as SWAT gear with body armor, masks,  that sort of thing.   
CERVANTES: That I don't know. I believe it was military style, but beyond that I don't know.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE REPORTER: What is happening right now as far as the people who are still hiding out in the regional center, and not only the employees but  the clients there?   
CERVANTES: That building the police department and several neighboring agencies have come to assist us. Police officers are going through that building. I'm not  sure how much they've done searching it. And what they will do is they will  remove all of the people that are in that building and sort through them,  victims, witnesses, and they will take them to another facility where they will  be interviewed.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE REPORTER: Sergeant, there has also been discussion about other regional centers in the area being closed as a result of what happened  here in San Bernardino. Did threats come in this morning or do you know of any  other threats to any other areas?   
CERVANTES: I don't have information on any of that. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE
REPORTER: So you're suggesting that family members go to this center in San Bernardino? Again, can you please repeat that information?   
CERVANTES: Yes, that's the Hernandez center and it's at Third Street and Sierra way. It's a local park, parks and rec. And they have a facility there that we  will be able to take people in and again sort through and hopefully get  everybody reunited.   
