    
HIGHLIGHT: A massive meeting, an ambitious goal. World leaders right now are arriving at the COP 21 Climate Change Conference in Paris; Hundreds of climate  activists clashed with police on Sunday after finding ways around new  restrictions on mass demonstrations in Paris; We are learning more about a key  suspect in the Paris terror attacks. It's believed Salah Abdeslam headed to  Brussels after the killings. Six people are being detained in Belgium in  connection with those attacks; Paris could play host to other important talks,  as well, namely between Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Russian  President Vladimir Putin; Pope Francis is spending the final day of his African  tour in the Central African Republic. He's celebrating an outdoor mass right  now, in fact before he leaves for Vatican; Basketball star Kobe Bryant announced  Sunday he is retiring after this year's NBA season. After the season, Bryant  will have played 20 years in the league, won five championships, and selected as  an all-star 17 times.         
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN HOST: A massive meeting, an ambitious goal. World leaders right now are arriving at the COP 21 Climate Change Conference in Paris. You see  them there. Over the next two days, almost 150 heads of state will discuss ways  to limit global warming. This all comes about two weeks after the deadly terror  attacks in Paris. The conference will begin with a moment of silence for the  victims. After that there will be addresses by French President Francois  Hollande and U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon. Later, all of the world leaders  will get a chance to make addresses.    I want to go now to CNN Senior White House Correspondent Jim Acosta. He joins us  live from Paris. Jim, the U.S. President arrives at the summit in just a few  minutes, in fact. And not long after that he will meet with bilateral talks with  China's President Xi Jinping. What is expected out of those discussions?   
JIM ACOSTA, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rosemary, the White House is hopeful that the President of the United States and the President of  China will be able to set the tone for these climate talks. They're trying to  show that the two most powerful economies in the world that they can control  their carbon emissions that they put up into the atmosphere. Roughly a year ago  in Beijing, Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping forged a climate deal. For the  first time, China had really committed itself to clamping down on its carbon  emissions.    They suffer from a severe smog problem, so it was a signal to the rest of the  world and eyes of the United States that developing countries, that smaller  developing country can get on board when it comes to tackling climate change. So  that is basically the reason why these two leaders are meeting, to set the tone  for the rest of the summit. In the past, with climate agreements, developing  countries like China, like India, which were called developing economies back  then. They're no longer that anymore. They were carved out of those agreements  because it was thought because these economies are growing and developing, they  could not be constrained with climate agreements. That is no longer the case.    Even though all of these countries are expected to band together to forge this  climate agreement in the next couple of weeks, which would basically bind just  about every country on earth to limiting their carbon emissions, climate  scientists are not so sure this is going to do the job. So that will be part of  the discussion this week, as well.   
CHURCH: Interesting. What is the U.S. likely to bring to the table in this effort to curb emissions, given it is one of the world's top carbon emitting  countries, along with China and India, as you mentioned?   
ACOSTA: As President Obama was leading the U.S., he put out a message on Facebook, the economy in the U.S. is doing quite well, but emissions out of the  U.S. are at a 20-year low. And so the White House is coming into Paris trying to  make the case that the U.S. is not emitting quite as much as it used to or not  at the same pace. Having said all of that, yes, what the U.S. is doing and what  some of the other top economies are pledging to do for some of these smaller  developing countries are foreign aid and public private partnerships. The White  House announced a partnership where the largest economies of the world are going  to try to commit more resources to research and development.        The Bill Gates Foundation, the founder of Microsoft, his foundation is pledging  financial support to that endeavor. So we'll see if they can get to an agreement  that pleases climate scientists. They are aiming for a two Celsius degree  reduction in the growth of temperatures over the coming century. That's less  than four degrees Fahrenheit. The question is whether or not, how do you monitor  what other countries are doing? They're supposed to be provisions written into  this agreement over the next couple of weeks that would allow countries to  monitor other countries. Whether they could police other countries is the big  question and what makes this difficult for leaders to come together on.    So we'll have to see how they hammer that out. But the linchpin in all this is  global monitoring of how every country is doing when it comes to its carbon  emissions. That will be interesting to watch, as well.   
CHURCH: Jim, as we've been listening and watching you, we've been watching these live pictures to the right here as French President Francois Hollande is  receiving leaders from all across the globe. We're expecting 150 or so. In about  ten minutes from now, President Obama will arrive and we will of course, mark  that with pictures, and 15 minutes after that, he will have these bilateral  talks, and we'll mark that moment. Many thanks to you, Jim, we'll talk to you  again soon. Appreciate it.    Hundreds of climate activists clashed with police on Sunday after finding ways  around new restrictions on mass demonstrations in Paris. CNN's John Sutter has  more now on the message they want to send to world leaders at that COP 21  Summit.   
JOHN SUTTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Thousands of shoes fill Paris' square in silent protest. On many of them, messages about climate change.  Stop pollution, protect future generations. You see all of these shoes here  demanding a stop to pollution and action on climate change. This is close to  where the terrorist attacks happened. Paris is still in a state of emergency  after the November 13th terror attacks. And mass demonstrations have been banned  by authorities.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So we showed with the shoes that we wanted to world leaders to take action on climate change.   
SUTTER: Ahead of a major summit, activists here have found creative ways to make their message heard.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I have to apologize for taking the earth for granted, always taking and never giving. Telling those stories about animals we used to  have.   
SUTTER: Activist angels from Australia pass through the display. Others formed a human chain. But the mood got tense. Somber demonstrations gave way to conflict,  as others defied the ban on marches and challenged the police.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To change the mind of the people and of course, the leaders of the world.   
SUTTER: The climate summit, called COP 21, may be the world's best chance to figure out how to avoid disastrous levels of global warming. Many activists say  they're sick of the talk. They're eager to see the world take bold steps towards  a cleaner future. John Sutter, CNN, Paris.       
CHURCH: And our meteorologist Pedram Javaheri joins us again. We talked last hour, of course, but let's talk specifically about this COP 21 Summit. It is a  very ambitious expectation that all of these leaders, 150 or so will be on the  same page and reach some agreement. A lot of people criticize this as talk and  very little action. And weather experts across the world, what are your  expectations coming out of this and what are the many challenges ahead?   
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST: We know the two largest nations those polluters when it comes to coal, China and the United States. It's ironic what's  happening right now. But still our planet is warming. That's a given. Since the  1970s, temperatures have been on the increase and a 5 percent to 10 percent  increase in precipitation amounts from storm. So more evaporation from our  planet that's 70 percent that's ocean, more rainfall is coming down and flooding  is the main concern around the world when it comes to climate change. This is a  statistic from 1995 to 2015, 90 percent of all natural disasters have been  related to weather, then tropical see cyclones and then earthquakes.     Over a billion impacted by droughts, over 600 million people with the  tropical cyclones. When you look at the United States and China that is the  number of weather disasters, that's how many they've had in the United States  and China. You see the disasters on the order of 441 in China, Myanmar with the  death toll, much of that associated with tropical cyclone. You look at the  number of weather disasters per year, since 2005 to 2015, 335. That is 50  percent increases, the blue indication there, which are about 163 weather  disasters per year. That's how far long we've seen a dramatic increase in  weather disasters.    You want to think about China and the pollution that is taking place over that  part of the world. This is the most polluted day in Beijing for 2015. You look  at why this happens. Two-thirds of the energy production in China comes from  coal. If you put this together, the air quality index, the highest level we've  seen. They are at orange alert, meaning industry has to be slowed down,  construction sites have to put tools down, so it is reaching an extreme amount.  And we haven't seen it this high for quite some time across this area of  Beijing.   
CHURCH: It's amazing with this, because you still tune in to a lot of the conservative hosts still insist there's nothing to it, that they're all wrong.  What do you say to them?   
JAVAHERI: You know it's fascinating because I graduated from college about ten years ago. Even up to about ten years ago, the studies that our professors were  presenting were showing the disparity between is it happening or not? In the  last ten years, now I am starting to see it is certainly starting to trend more  towards fact that it is happening.   
CHURCH: Interesting, Pedram Javaheri, always great to talk with you.   We are learning more about a key suspect in the Paris terror attacks. It's  believed Salah Abdeslam headed to Brussels after the killings. Six people are  being detained in Belgium in connection with those attacks. CNN's Alexandra  Field has new details now from the investigation.       
ALEXANDRA FIELD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Wanted men in connection with the Paris terror attacks. Authorities have already identified his brother as one of the  suicide bombers. Together, both brothers rented the cars used in the attacks.  But now sources telling CNN that it was Salah Abdeslam who also purchased  detonators prior to the Paris attacks. A French newspaper is reporting they were  bought at a store north of Paris, and that the owner or manager of that store  contacted authorities when he saw Abdeslam's photo as part of this international  man hunt. Abdeslam was able to leave France, entering Belgium in the aftermath  of the attacks.    That's before police knew who they were looking for. But one U.S. lawmaker  speculates investigators would be closer to finding the man they've been  searching for 
. MICHAEL MCCAUL, U.S. HOUSE HOMELAND SECURITY COMMITTEE: I dothink they're closing in on him. That's the good news. Many are involved in this plot. It's a very sophisticated plot, an external operation we've seen from  ISIS. You mentioned the bombing of the Russian airliner. This is a new ISIS, a  new chapter for them to conduct three external operations in just recent times.   
FIELD: The search for Salah Abdeslam has prompted raids and arrests across Belgium. Already authorities arrested six people in connection to the Paris  terror attacks. They have arrested the two men believed to have driven Salah  Abdeslam from France to Belgium along with another man who is believed to have  picked him up once he arrived and driven him to another location. And while they  continue their hunt for Salah Abdeslam, they're also looking for one more man,  Mohammed Abrini, who was seen with Salah Abdeslam just two days before the  terror attacks, Alexandra Field, CNN.       
CHURCH: We'll take a short break here. Still to come, Turkey's President hopes to smooth things over with Russia after the downing of a Russian jet. We'll look  at the chances for a dialogue in Paris.    And Pope Francis makes a symbolic gesture as he calls for peace and  reconciliation in the Central African Republic, we're back in a moment.       
CHURCH: Right now, world leaders are arriving for the COP 21 Climate Change Conference in Paris. Their goal is to reach a binding agreement that limits  global warming. The summit will begin with a moment of silence for the victims  of the Paris terror attacks earlier this month. You're seeing there those live  pictures as French President Francois Hollande greets the many leaders, almost  150 leaders from across the globe. We will see what happens.    Paris could play host to other important talks, as well, namely between Turkish  President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin. Turkey's  leader suggested that Paris might be the perfect forum to smooth over relations  with Russia face-to-face after Turkey shot down a Russian jet last week. CNN  International Correspondent Matthew Chance joins us now live from Moscow. So  Matthew, a little premature perhaps, how receptive is Moscow to such talks with  Turkey?   
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, last we heard from the Kremlin, which was last week, a few days ago. They don't seem to be very  receptive. The last word from the Kremlin is there were no talks planned with  the Turkish President Vladimir Putin, despite the request by the Turkish  leadership to both sit down in Paris to discuss the recent incident of the  shooting down by Turkey of the Russian warplane on the Turkish-Syrian border.  The Kremlin is still absolutely furious that this has taken place. Obviously,  one of the crew members on board was killed, another Russian soldier on the  ground was killed in the rescue attempt of the surviving airman.    So it's had a big political impact. And Vladimir Putin appears to be personally  angry, as well. So much so that the Kremlin has enacted sanctions against  Turkey, putting restrictions on businesses and citizens in the country, stopping  charter flights to travel to and from Russia from Turkey, and imposing sanctions  on various food stuffs, as well. A full list of those food stuffs has not yet  been made public. We're expecting that over the next 24 to 48 hours. But they're  absolutely furious. The Russians want an apology from the Turks. They want talks  of compensation, as well, for the airplane and for the lives lost.    Neither of those things has been forthcoming from Ankara. So in that context,  the Russians are just saying that they will not be meeting President Erdogan in  Paris to try and resolve this matter.   
CHURCH: All right, our Matthew Chance reporting live from Moscow. Many thanks to you, I know you'll keep an eye out in case there's any other change to that.  Appreciate it.    While the battle against ISIS has focused on the militant's gains in Iraq and  Syria, the power vacuum in Libya has allowed ISIS to seize the key coastal city  of Sirte. Their foothold is raising western alarms.       
MUHAMMAD ELJAR, ATLANTIC COUNCIL: They have full control over the city and they control around 150 to 200 kilometers of the coastal area and Sirte and they also  go down south about 120 kilometers, and then about 60 kilometers from the city  of Misurata, and to the east, they are on the outskirts of the main oil  terminals in Libya and the reports are that they are reinforcing their positions  in the town, which is only about 40 kilometers away from Libya's biggest oil  terminal in the region there.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There are some who say the more that ISIS is squeezed geographically in Iraq, the more appealing Libya looks as a headquarters. Does  it look like they're expanding their influence, is that a possible fallback for  them?   
ELJAR: I think it is actually happening. Sources inside the city of Sirte or near the city of Sirte have confirmed the arrival of many foreign fighters over  the last few weeks and months. Convoys from Nigeria, from Mali, an entire  brigade of fighters from Tunisia are all now located in Sirte or to the south of  Sirte in the Libyan Desert and around the area of Jufra there. So I believe it  is happening and I believe that Islamic state has been sending many of its  members around the region to the city of Sirte. And the news from Sirte today is  that there has been a lot of movement around the port of Sirte, the commercial  port of Sirte, which could indicate that maybe more fighters are arriving by sea  to the coastal city of Sirte.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And reports of senior ISIS officials heading Libya's way, as well. But Libya isn't Syria or it's not Iraq either. What of the militias, be  they from Misurata or other areas, those disparate groups that banded together  to fight Gadhafi, and then fought each other. Might they come together to fight  ISIS, is there any sign of that?   
ELJAR: Definitely, the Islamic state has been exploiting the disintegration of Libya's armed groups following the fall of the Gadhafi regime. However, I  believe that the U.N.-led peace talks might offer a chance to bring together the  local stake holders in Libya who will definitely be the main force that could  defeat ISIS, because we have an example where ISIS was defeated in the city of  Dharma about 175 kilometers from where I am now. It was only possible because  local actors came together, the Libyan National Army and local armed groups  within the city and people of Dharma all came together and expelled the group  out of the city of Dharma a few months ago.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Which is all very worrying, one final question, when you lock at how close Libya is to Europe, and we've already seen refugees crossing to  Europe from Libya, is this also perhaps a launching pad for ISIS to its  neighbors in Egypt, Algeria, and Tunisia, a geographical launching pad to expand  the battle?   
ELJAR: Absolutely. Libya could become the base for ISIS to carry out attacks throughout the region and in the Mediterranean, as well the recent attack in  Tunisia that killed around 12 Presidential guardsmen was planned in Libya. And  the links of militants who are operating out of Libya are always over most of  the terrorist attacks we see in the region.       
CHURCH: We'll take a short break here on CNN Newsroom.   But Pope Francis' African tour is coming to an end. We'll look at the message  he's sending on his first visit to an active war zone, plus, much more on the  International Climate Change Summit as we look at live pictures of leaders  arriving ready to get started.       
CHURCH: A warm welcome back to CNN Newsroom. I'm Rosemary Church. I want to get you caught up on the stories we're following.    World leaders arriving now for COP 21 conference on climate change in Paris, and  just a short time ago, while we were in the break, U.S. President Barack Obama  did arrive. We saw him getting out of the car. We should be able to tape turn  that any moment now. But he got out of the car and also U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry was with him. They shook hands with the French President Francois  Hollande, and they will get under way this Monday morning. It is 9:30 there in  Paris. And they will be starting that conference, 150 heads of state working to  find an agreement to curve global warming.    And in just a short time, U.S. President Obama will meet with the Chinese  President. But also the backdrop to this, hundreds of environmental activists in  Paris clashed with police Sunday. Officers fired tear gas to break up the  demonstrations. The protesters threw bottles, shoes, and police say even candles  taken from memorials.    We want to get more now on the talks that are going to get under way any moment,  the COP 21 Summit. And Nick Mabey joins me now, he is the Chief Executive and  Founding Director of E3G or Third Generation Environmentalism, a nonprofit  organization focused on sustainable development, and Nick is also a former U.K.  government adviser. He joins us live from Paris. Thanks for talking with us. So  let's start with what your expectations are. How good do you think this  agreement will likely be? It's going to take 150 or so leaders, all trying to  get on the same page here. But as we would figure, they will be pulling in lots  of different directions.   
NICK MABEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND FOUNDING DIRECTOR OF E3G: The good news is we expect a deal. Optimism is strong here in Paris, much better than previous talks  in Copenhagen. We expect it to be a reasonably strong deal. No one thinks it's  going to be strong enough to keep us to safe levels of global warming, but  strong enough to put us on that path. So I would say optimism high, but a lot of  work to do to bridge the final differences.   
CHURCH: And also the United States, China, and India of course, are the world's top three carbon emitting countries. We talked about that a lot. What do they  need to do to lead the charge? And what might we see come out of bilateral talks  between the United States and China today, expected to get under way in just a  matter of minutes in fact?   
CHURCH: Well, there's been a lot of progress obviously between U.S. and China. This time before Copenhagen, they were shouting at each other through mega  phones. Now they're coming into the talks with a comprehensive set of agreements  on how the outcome might look. So we're expecting hopefully from the bilateral  today some strong statements on the need for long-term agreement, a binding set  of provisions on transparency, and particularly that China moves on our ability  to check whether China is delivering what its doing. But perhaps more  importantly, is the relationship between the U.S. and China to India.    India is taking quite a hard line stance running up to the last few weeks,  pushing back against the idea of ratcheting up the ambitions we see in Paris  every five years, which other countries see as critical to making this  agreement. So we should keep our eyes on the meetings with the Prime Minister  later on today.   
CHURCH: As we've been talking to you, we're looking at this tape turn where U.S. President Barack Obama arrived there at the COP 21 Summit. We see now U.S.  Secretary of State John Kerry, both gentlemen shook hands with French President  Francois Hollande and other leaders there. As I mentioned, in just a very short  time, President Obama will meet with the President of China, very significant to  sort of see leaders of that caliber at a meeting like this. And developing  nations say they need these richer countries to help subsidize them through  their transition. Will we likely see that, do you think?       
MABEY: I think you're completely right. It's incredibly significant to see so many world leaders, putting pressure on their negotiators to come up with a deal  and raising ambition. And also talking to the home audiences, explaining why  it's important for them to be here and important we agree to this treaty. I've  never known a Chinese President turn up to a U.N. meeting of this type before.  So Xi Jinping's attendance is incredibly important and an incredible testament  to U.S. diplomacy to get him here. But you're right. There is an issue about  money and how countries deal with environment change.    We haven't settled that yet. There has been a large increase in climate funding,  particularly from the major European countries, U.K., Germany, and France have  doubled their climate aid over this year. But there will be some hard wrangling  over this. But in the end, we don't expect this to be a deal breaker. People are  very near to an agreement. And to be honest, the money is flowing. So the facts  on the ground are helping, and tomorrow the Indians will announce a major  initiative on solar investment around the world, particularly in Africa, which  is a sign this has moved beyond rich countries, but this is a global investment  in the new economy.    So optimism is high, because the facts are changing in the new clean energy  economy.   
CHURCH: Of course, the irony is high, too, because we know that back in China there's a big problem with the pollution, and we're seeing that particularly on  this day. But you mentioned this high optimism, which is extraordinary. And  we're hearing it from many analysts who have been talking about the likely  outcome here, because many people say when you get a lot of leaders together,  there's a lot of talking and very little action. But so many people seem to  think there will be a good outcome here.   
MABEY: Well, I think this is a real testimony to the way the French have organized these negotiations. A lot of learning has happened since Copenhagen,  and a lot of efforts to make sure the big issues have been talked over.  Countries know where they are, they know what has to be done to get to the final  agreement, and they also realize it's in everybody's interest to have tough  rules on transparency, so we know if everybody delivers their promises, because  I think a big change is China knows it's in China's interest to deliver a strong  deal. It doesn't want pollution at home. It's very vulnerable to climate change.    So it's in no one's interest to see a weak agreement where country's get away  with not doing their fair share. So it's everybody trying to do as much as  necessary for their national interest.   
CHURCH: Nick Mabey, a pleasure to talk with you and many thanks for sharing your perspective on this. We do appreciate it.    Well, we talked to people in several countries about what they think the summit  leaders need to do to prevent a climate catastrophe. Here's what they said on  our open mike.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Whenever we commute, we burn loads and holds of petrol .   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think educating people are the ones who have to take action.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Maybe giving up subsidies for renewable source of energy.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Educating people on the disasters and how climate is changing very rapidly.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Carbon emissions need to be cut by probably 50 percent, and all transportation based on fossil fuels should be transmuted to alternative  energy sources.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All they need to do is to adhere to the environmental rules by specific countries.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It starts with a mind change, mind of every citizen.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All the governments need to care about the subject. Put away the political discussions and religion. It affects all around the globe.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do more on recycling. Use less plastic bags and less hair spray.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think many cities are just big concrete jungles, and we should incorporate more nature and parks in the city where people live.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Allowing large companies to buy and sell carbon points to each other.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: To buy more locally to reduce the carbon foot prints.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's one of those questions that until we look back, it won't be clear what we should have done, and then perhaps it will be too late.       
CHURCH: A taste of many different views from right across the globe.   We'll take a short break here. Still to come, the Pope is wrapping up a  three-nation African tour and we are taking live pictures right now in the  Central African Republic. And you will see how he reached out to Muslim and  protestant leaders, a live report on that coming your way next.   
CHURCH: Pope Francis is spending the final day of his African tour in the Central African Republic. He's celebrating an outdoor mass right now, in fact  before he leaves for Vatican. Last hour, the Pope visited a mosque, sending a  powerful message of religious tolerance in that war-torn country. CNN's Robyn  Kriel joins me now. She has been monitoring the Pope's African tour since it  began in Nairobi, Kenya, and that's where she joins me. So Robyn, talk to us  about what all the Pope has achieved by this visit, the first time he's been  there as a Pope on the African continent.       
ROBYN KRIEL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I think we're going to really see the effects of his visit after many months to come, Rosemary. But what I can tell you, people  definitely were left inspired by his various movements, and he was incredibly  busy. Here in Nairobi, he met with inter-religious leaders. He held a huge mass  at the University of Nairobi, even though it was raining nonstop. People still  came, around 300,000 people still came out to see the Pope, and he had a lot of  messages there were people were very happy afterwards. He also held a mass for  the youth -- rather a dialogue for the youth at the stadium here in Nairobi  where he spoke out about a number of really important subjects, at least to  Kenyans, corruption.    But it was something that resonates across the continent, corruption, youth  radicalization, issues that people are worried about, employment, poverty.  Poverty has been a major theme of his, and of course, now in the CAR where he is  giving that holy mass. What we can tell you is just before he attended this holy  mass, he visited a mosque, and inter-religious dialogue has been a key theme,  tolerance of one another. Before he entered the mosque to visit with Imams,  which has had sectarian violence since 2013, thousands killed here, he went to a  refugee camp, visiting with people there, and finding out what they had gone  through, some of their stories and to have a Pope from another religion, it  would have been a powerful moment.    He then went inside the mosque and spoke to Imams saying that despite the  differences, peace must prevail and of course, the vulnerability of the people  living in those refugee camps and the tents, the people in the slums of Nairobi,  across Africa, that is what his message is, to put religious and political  differences aside.   
CHURCH: Robyn, I think that was certainly the standout, and certainly for me, looking at this trip, the fact that the Pope goes to this mosque, not only sends  this incredible message to other religious leaders across the globe, but he  sends it very clearly to ISIS and to other extremists who want to perpetrate  violence on other communities and other religions, and even though within their  own religion. So that stood out really for a lot of people, didn't it?   
KRIEL: It did, and Rosemary, I think on the ground that made a lot of sense, as well. Not just religious dialogue. It was tolerance of everyone. You saw the  Pope meeting with people here in Kenya, meeting with the poorest of the poor.  It's really the people's Pope is what everyone has been calling him. Everything  from the different people that he's shaking hands with, from the babies he's  kissing, he visited hospitals. He blessed little girls and little boys and the  elderly. This has really been -- this connection has been sending thing message  to not only, as you said, ISIS, extremist groups who want to do harm on others,  but also a message to his own Catholic Church that you have to be merciful and  forgiving, and you have to take care of the vulnerable.   
CHURCH: A message heard right across the globe. As you say, the people's Pope. He is indeed, many thanks to you, Robyn Kriel, talking to us there from Nairobi,  Kenya.    Dozens of meteorologists, one dress, find out why viewers are see this outfit on  weather forecasts all across the United States. We will explain.       
CHURCH: Basketball star Kobe Bryant announced Sunday he is retiring after this year's NBA season. After the season, Bryant will have played 20 years in the  league, won five championships, and selected as an all-star 17 times. A few  hours ago, he told reporters the decision to go was all his.       
KOBE BRYANT, LOS ANGELES LAKERS: A decision like this, you can't make that decision based on outside circumstances. It has to be an internal decision, and  finally, I just had to accept the fact that I don't want to do this anymore. You  know, and I am ok with that.       
CHURCH: Kobe Bryant speaking there on Sunday night.   Well, now to a mysterious dress that's becoming a fad in the United States, but  only in a very specific group, female meteorologists. CNN's Jeanne Moos sets out  to solve the mystery of the weather dress.       
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You'll be showered by female meteorologists wearing the same dress. Shelby Hays of KOCO Oklahoma City is one of more than 50  meteorologists...   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A little fake pocket here with the zippers.  
MOOS: Who brought the same $23 dress on Amazon.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I have the blue one that I am currently wearing and I have a pink one that is on the way.   
MOOS: Turns out these women who do the weather belong to a Facebook group that exchanged professional advice, and that's how the perfect, inexpensive TV dress  multiplied. You know if there's a party and two women show up in the same dress,  everyone is mortified. This is not like that, right?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's not like that at all. We're such a tight nit group.  
MOOS: The creator of this collage is Jennifer Myers, seen here wearing the blue version. But every meteorologist knows which dress not to buy, the one in green.  After all, you wouldn't want to disappear into the green screen. This is the  fate of any forecaster caught wearing green.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I can do a headless forecast.  
MOOS: So ginger, where's yours?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They don't come in maternity.  
MOOS: The dress meets all TV requirements, and at least in Oklahoma City...  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There's absolutely no cleavage. That cannot happen.  
MOOS: But the dress is form fitting. So what to do with the mic pad.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'll hook my mic pack on the back of one boot.  
MOOS: The dress reminds some of Star Trek. Never mind the percentage chance of rain. The fashion outlook is for...   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sixty five percent polyester.  
MOOS: Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.      
CHURCH: Very special dress, popular and yet so cheap. How about that?   Finally this hour, when you think of dangerous animals in the mountains of  Colombia, you might think snakes or spiders, even jaguars, but a hippopotamus?  Actually, there are two of them hanging around one town in central Colombia. The  region is suffering from a drought right now, and these guys are pretty thirsty,  so they're looking for water. If you're wondering how they got there, blame it  on notorious drug lord Pablo Escobar. In his heyday, he imported various exotic  animals for his private zoo, the two on the loose now of their.    Thank you for watching CNN Newsroom. I am Rosemary Church. Stay with us. The  news continues after this short break in London. Have a great day.       
