    
HIGHLIGHT: Rahm Emanuel has fired the city's police superintendent, Garry McCarthy. The move comes after a week of protests over the city's handling of a  shooting of a black teenager, Laquan McDonald, by a white police officer. The  U.S. is beefing up its special forces in Iraq and Syria.     
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, I'm Wolf Blitzer. It's 1:00 p.m. here in Washington, 7:00 p.m. in Paris, 9:00 p.m. in Baghdad. Wherever you're watching  from around the world, thanks very much for joining us.   
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.  
BLITZER: Lots of news happening today but let's get to the breaking news out of Chicago. First, the mayor there, Rahm Emanuel, has fired the city's police  superintendent, Garry McCarthy. The move comes after a week of protests over the  city's handling of a shooting of a black teenager, Laquan McDonald, by a white  police officer.       
MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL, CHICAGO: After this weekend, after effectively handling both the protests that followed the release of the McDonald video last week and  the arrest of Laquan's killer, superintendent McCarthy and I began a discussion  on Sunday about the direction of the department and the undeniable fact that the  public trust and the leadership of the department has been shaken and eroded.    This morning, I formally asked for his resignation. The superintendent Garry's  record at the Chicago Police Department is a strong one and one that he can be  proud of. I am grateful for his service to the city. He has both modernized the  police department and brought real results for the people of the city of  Chicago.       
BLITZER: Public outrage erupted after police delayed the release of a dash cam video. I want to warn our viewers. It is very disturbing, disturbing that the  captured -- that capture the police officer, Jason Van Dyke, fatally shooting  the teenager, Laquan McDonald, 16 times. Police held onto the video for more  than a year. The officer was in charge until the judge ordered that the video be  made public. Ryan Young is joining us now from Chicago. Ryan, so, what's the  immediate reaction to the breaking news, the mayor's sudden announcement that  the police chief should be fired?   
RYAN YOUNG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, we actually -- someone actually walked by our live sign and starting screaming yes and that's the reaction that  we've seen from some people. Others are confused by this, just looking on  Twitter because, obviously, Garry McCarthy is the superintendent here. But this  is not an at-will police department. The superintendent can't just fire any  office that he wants to.    In fact, he did strip him of his powers. He sat at that desk for 13 months,  Jason Van Dyke, before getting that first degree murder charge. And, of course,  he's out on bond after walking out of the jail last night. Look, a lot of people  want to know why did it take 400 days for this video to be released? Who saw it  and what happened? And they're also pointing to Anita Alvarez, wondering if  they'll be changing there. I can honestly tell you when you woke up in the  morning, this is the cover of the newspaper that was in town, in the "Sun  Times," was saying Jerry McCarthy needed to be fired.    The superintendent then went on a media tour this morning, going to radio  stations and police T.V. stations trying to say, look, he doesn't think he  should be fired. He thinks he's doing the job that the mayor set out for him,  and he thought the mayor had his back. All that has now changed. And, of course,  there are questions about what will happen next in this city? Because there's  obviously a large mistrust between the community and the police department.    You talk about the 16 shots to Laquan McDonald, two of which while he was  standing, 14 on the ground. We saw those people march up Michigan Avenue on  Black Friday chanting, 16 shots, 16 shots. Now, the fallout of this is like an  onion, because people also want to know what will happen next to the city  government? They want to know if the investigations here in the city will  change, what tangible can they touch in terms of a timetable about what will  happen next -- Wolf.   
BLITZER: Ryan, thanks very much. Many have questioned whether the mayor has done enough in this case. Listen to this exchange between the mayor, Rahm Emanuel,  and reporters just a little while ago.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. Mayor, how do you build trust and transparency when it appears that the tapes have been tampered with? And are we ever going to get the  truth about what happened to those -- what happened to the audio lines --   
EMANUEL: Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: --?  
EMANUEL: I think it goes, again, why I addressed the first part but let me repeat it or make thispoint. There are three elements to here.  There was a civil settlement. There was a criminal investigation that's now  charges that were brought. And there's an ongoing U.S. attorney-FBI  investigation. Questions like that exist to the Burger King, the conduct at the  -- at that point by the police department, other things that the police  department took afterwards, all that will be -- is being looked at by the  Justice Department.    And so, when you say that, I would just say, there are three separate distinct  parts, one was civil, one was criminal and one is civil rights and otherwise.  And they're all -- and when they conclude, a lot of what you are asking, totally  legitimate, they will have the questions -- they will have the answers to those  questions.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. Mayor,distraction as well?  
EMANUEL: Have I?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Have you and your office become a distraction?  
EMANUEL: I don't -- I'm responsible to the public to do the job of being a mayor. And you earn that trust every day.   
 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have you seen the video? Have you seen the video, Mr. Mayor?   
EMANUEL: Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And if you have seen it, --  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Excuse me. Mr. McCarthy had become a distraction.  
EMANUEL: Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There are a lot of questions in this room about you and your office. HaveHH you become a distraction as well?   
EMANUEL: Well, you'll make that judgment. I think I'm doing my job and I try to do it every day and do it in a professional way.       
BLITZER: All right, let's get some reaction from the alderman of the Chicago's Fifth District. Leslie Hairston is joining us on the phone. Leslie, thanks very  much for joining us. I know you've been a vocal critic of the mayor and the  superintendent. The police chief has now been fired. What's your reaction to the  mayor's announcement?   
LESLIE HAIRSTON, WARD ALDERMAN, CHICAGO'S FIFTH DISTRICT: Well, the -- I have been calling for the superintendent's firing since October if not  before. So, I'm glad to have seen this move forward.   
BLITZER: Is it enough?  
HAIRSTON: No, it's not enough. It's just the beginning. I mean, you've got a whole system that has failed in the Chicago Police Department, and we are going  to have to fix that internal structure.   
BLITZER: Do you have confidence in mayor Emanuel?  
HAIRSTON: I do not have confidence in the mayor. What I am seeing now is more of the same. And you know if you keep doing more of the same and expecting  different results, that doesn't happen.   
BLITZER: As you know, he's appointed the accountability task force to take a look at the entire structure of the police in Chicago. Do you have confidence in  that? Will that make a difference?   
HAIRSTON: Well, that is the first action that he has taken that shows me that he is not serious about this, because some of the members that are appointed were  part of the police review authority that allowed this to go on and that failed  to make recommendations for policy changes in the police department which is  what they are supposed to be doing.   
BLITZER: So, what do you anticipate the reaction will be on the streets of Chicago to what's going on?   
HAIRSTON: Well, I think the reactions will be people are going to continue to push for more transparency in the police department. I think we're just starting  to see the beginning of a movement towards accountability.   
BLITZER: Leslie Hairston, the Fifth ward alderman in Chicago. Thanks so much for joining us.   
HAIRSTON: Thank you very much.  
BLITZER: Let's get some more perspective on what's going on. Joining us is our CNN Law Enforcement Analyst, the former FBI assistant director, Tom Fuentes, who  was a police officer before he joined the FBI just outside of Chicago. So, is  this going to calm thing down? What do you think?   
TOM FUENTES, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Actually, Wolf, I don't think it'll calm things down too much. I think there's still going to be a concern in the  community of how things are conducted in Chicago. And I think that, you know,  much of what the mayor said was contradictory even as to the decision-making. He  said, well, we can't give you all the answers until all the investigations are  over. Well, if they're not over, he's going ahead and firing the superintendent  prematurely.   
BLITZER: He praised the superintendent for doing an excellent job. But at the same time, he says that people have lost confidence in him.   
FUENTES: Well, he's lost confidence in him for sure, if it's just the people or if it's, you know, other issues that come up. But, you know, this is a classic  case of the superintendent is being held responsible but not all of this is his  fault. The fact that it took 400 days for the state's attorney's office to bring  the criminal charges against the officer. We don't know all the decision-making  as to holding that video for the 400 days also. Then, the mayor says, well, I  didn't want to look at the video. I didn't want to taint the investigation. Yet,  they went ahead and settled with the family which basically is like saying, OK,  the office was at fault. So, he's made many contradictory statements in the --  in the decision-making process all along in this thing.   
BLITZER: What's the likely reaction among rank and file police officers in Chicago to what's going on?   
FUENTES: I think the rank and file are going to think that superintendent McCarthy was sacrificed, that it's just a political thing, Rahm Emanuel deciding  to get rid of him and appease protesters, appease the public or excitement of  the public and just throw him out and bring somebody else in later that may be  more politically acceptable.   
BLITZER: Tom Fuentes, thanks very much.   Coming up, we'll have more on this story.    But also other breaking news happening right now, more American Special Forces  getting ready to head to Iraq and Syria, bolstering the U.S. military's fight  against ISIS. We'll have details of the mission and the decision behind it. We  will go inside Syria right after a quick break.       
BLITZER: We have breaking news coming into CNN on the war against ISIS. More U.S. special operations' forces are now heading to Iraq and to Syria, part of  what's being described as an expanding effort to defeat ISIS on the ground. The  U.S. defense secretary, Ash Carter, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman,  General Joseph Dunford, announcing the decision earlier this morning during  testimony before the House Armed Services Committee. Here is Secretary Carter  just a little while ago.       
ASH CARTER, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: In full coordination with the government of Iraq, we're deploying a specialized expeditionary targeting force to assist  Iraqi and Kurdish Peshmerga forces and put even more pressure on ISIL. These  special operators will, over time, be able to conduct raids, free hostages,  gather intelligence and capture ISIL leaders. This force will also be in a  position to conduct unilateral operations in Syria.       
BLITZER: Let's go to our Pentagon Correspondent Barbara Starr. She's joining us from the Pentagon. Also joining us is Ben Wedeman. He's inside Syria right now.    Barbara, what do we know about these U.S. Special Forces who will be deployed to  Syria right now? Because earlier, the president had authorized up to 50 special  operation forces to go into northern Syria. How many more troops is Secretary  Carter talking about?   
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Well, Wolf, it could be a couple of hundred additional troops. But let me separate out a couple of things. About 50  Special Forces, exactly what you said, are scheduled to arrive in northern Syria  at any time now. They are well on their way to getting there in the coming days.     Those troops, those 50, will be to assist opposition forces in  northern Syria in their fight against ISIS.    Separately, what Secretary Carter spoke about today is a brand new idea to try  and show some forward progress on the fight against ISIS. Again, several dozen  special operations forces, but plus their own backup, their own helicopters,  their own surveillance, intelligence, their own search and rescue if they need  it. So you're talking about a new element of perhaps upwards of 200 additional  forces. They will operate out of a secure location in northern Iraq. The U.S.  isn't saying exactly where. And they will be able to move very quickly either in  northern Iraq or over into northern Syria to go after high- valued senior ISIS  leadership, to gather intelligence, to stage raids.    One of the big things that they're trying to accomplish at the Pentagon is to  increase their ability to get intelligence on ISIS. They feel they have made a  lot of progress on that recently, but nothing really beats eyes and ears on the  ground, and they hope these new troops will contribute to the effort.    Wolf.   
BLITZER: So theoretically at least there could be not just 50 U.S. troops inside Syria. There could be as many at one time as 250 U.S. troops inside Syria, is  that right?   
STARR: Well, you're absolutely right, as you say, just now, theoretically. If there is a big enough target, if there is a big enough mission. They will base  out of northern Iraq, but they will be very mobile, very rapid, we are led to  believe, in their ability to get into northern Syria if that is what is needed.    Wolf.   
BLITZER: All right, let me -- let's check in with Ben Wedeman. He's been inside Syria now. You've been there watching what's going on. You've spoke to some of  those who are fighting ISIS inside Syria. What do they think? Will these  additional U.S. troops make much of a difference?   
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, certainly they welcome the possibility of the arrival of U.S. special forces. Now, they say  they already have fairly good connections or communications with coalition  forces. We were speaking to one commander today who say they -- who said -- told  us they have very good coordination at the highest levels when it comes to  calling in air strikes in the offensive against ISIS when you go to the front  lines.    It's interesting, Wolf, because I spent a lot of time with the Iraqi army and  other militias fighting ISIS in Iraq and what you saw there were a lot of  deficiencies in terms of morale, in terms of leadership. Here, that doesn't seem  to be the case. That they seem to have very high morale, men and women fighting  on the front lines. What they're really looking for, what they would like to  receive from the United States and its coalition partners is more and better  weapons. They say they've received ammunition for -- like machine guns, for  mortars and whatnot, but what they're looking for is heavier equipment, heavier  weaponry that would be more effective because what we've seen certainly in some  parts of northeastern Syria is that ISIS have been pushed back quite  dramatically in those areas where the Kurdish and other force, anti-ISIS forces,  have had good coordination with the air forces when it comes to the calling in  air strikes. But they say what they need really is heavy weapons to fight ISIS.    Wolf.   
BLITZER: Yes, and I'm sure they do.   All right, Ben, thanks very much. Ben Wedeman, be careful over there inside  Syria.    Let's talk more about the developing U.S. strategy, and it is emerging right  now. Joining us, Lieutenant General Mark Hertling, retired. He's a CNN military  analyst, a former U.S. Army commanding general. Also joining us, Phil Mudd. He's  our senior counterterrorism analyst, a former CIA counterterrorism official, and  Paul Cruickshank, he's a CNN terrorism analyst.    So, first of all, General Hertling, what do you think these additional 200  special operations forces who will be based in northern Iraq but could move  easily into Syria, joining these other 50 U.S. special operation forces, is it  really going to make much of a difference?   
LT. GEN. MARK HERTLING, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, I'm not going to put a number on it like Barbara just did, Wolf. But, yes, they certainly will. And,  remember, this has been the plan from the very beginning. As -- as we've said a  year ago, as the rebel forces and the Iraqi forces stood up, we would continue  to contribute more and more to their capability. That's what's happening right  now.    When you're talking about task organizing, which the Army does, the military  does very well, special operations does it at the next higher level than the  rest of the military, you're putting together a group on the ground,  task-oriented for a specific mission to -- to accomplish a specific task. That's  what's occurring right now, a group of individuals who can react very quickly,  who can contribute to the fight on the ground, and who can help the indigenous  forces in a means that they might not have had before.   
 BLITZER: These are combat troops and it certainly sounds like combat boots on the ground, which, of course, the president has strongly resisted over  these past several years.    Phil Mudd, the president had a news conference in Paris today, just before  leaving to come back here to Washington, and he was very blunt, I thought,  candid, in criticizing Turkey for keeping a huge part of its border with Syria  open. Listen -- listen to this.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: There's about 98 kilometers that are still used as a transit point for foreign fighters. ISIL shipping out fuel  for sale that helps finance their terrorist activities. And so we have been  having our militaries work together to determine how a combination of air and  Turkish ground forces on the Turkish side of the border can do a much better job  of sealing the order than it currently is. And I think President Erdogan  recognizes that.       
BLITZER: He may recognize that, but Turkey, as you know, is a NATO ally. It has a huge military. And the president says 98 kilometers of that border is open,  not just for terrorists to move back and forward easily, but also for ISIS to  ship oil from Syria, from Iraq, Syria, into Turkey, to make money, to fund  additional terror operation. The president saying all of this. That's a pretty  damning indictment of Turkey.   
PHIL MUDD, CNN SENIOR COUNTERTERRORISM ANALYST: The damning indictment is not just about the border, Wolf. We have just in a week or so after the Turks  downing a Russian aircraft, the head of NATO, or one of the heads of NATO, as  the president of the United States, calling out the Turks publicly. This goes  back to the beginning of the Turks' involvement in this campaign. They said they  were engaged in the bombing campaign. Most of their bombing has been against  Kurdish rebels, not against ISIS. They said they would close the border. That's  not working out that well. And then they embarrassed NATO by that downing of the  aircraft. I think it's the president not just talking about the border, but  publically sending a message to President Erdogan in Turkey, and that is, you  guys better cooperate further and get in line with NATO or else we're going to  call you out, as he did today.   
BLITZER: Because the suggestion is, and others have made this accusation against Turkey, the Russians have certainly made it, Putin have made it, that Turkey's  making money actually taking in ISIS oil coming into Turkey and reselling it on  the black market. Paul Cruickshank, that's a very, very tough charge against  Turkey.   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: I think the evidence suggest that there's some trade through middlemen and that some of the oil is ending up  perhaps in Turkish hands.   
BLITZER: But if Turkey wanted to close that 98-kilometer chunk of that border, they easily have the manpower to do it.   
CRUICKSHANK: They easily have manpower. They have one of the largest standing armies. ISIS just hasn't been the priority for Erdogan, for Turkey. Their focus  has been on the PKK, the Kurds, as Phil was saying. Their whole security  establishment is hardwired to deal with the PKK threat and so they haven't been  doing enough to confront ISIS on the border and they haven't been doing enough  to confront ISIS inside Turkey as well.    And ISIS has a growing safe haven inside Turkey, inside Turkish cities like  Istanbul. They have a network of safe houses, supporters, fundraisers, people  organizing for people to take trips into Syria. And increasingly we're seeing  evidence of ISIS orchestrating terrorist plots against Europe from Turkey  itself. These recruits going into Turkey, meeting with ISIS operatives there,  not even needing to go to Syria anymore, Wolf.   
BLITZER: Were you surprised, General Hertling, by the president's blunt criticism of Turkey, a NATO ally, for, in effect, in effect cooperating with  ISIS?   
HERTLING: I was not, Wolf. In fact, I think this has been a long time coming. Turkey has improved by degrees along their border, but not significantly. And as  -- as Paul just said, there have been those rat lines going through Turkey.  They've been going through for the last several year. And whereas Turkey has  shown the appearance of attempting to crack down on them, they haven't done a  very good job.    The intel sharing that we talk about when we're talking about getting  information to other countries in Europe all emanates from Turkey and they have  not been all that good in sharing intelligence and information on radical  extremists in their country. So, yes, I think the president has attempted to be  nuanced about this, and today's statement was probably a lot more avert than  anything he's said in the past.   
BLITZER: Yes, it certainly sounds like his frustration. Obviously, he's trying to be diplomatic. He had just met with President Erdogan. But when he says, the  president, ISIS -- ISIL, in his word, shipping out fuel for sale to helps  finance their terrorist activities, Phil, that's a pretty strong statement from  the president that Turkey, a NATO ally, is in effect making money helping ISIS.   
 MUDD: That is I think what the Turks hoped when they shot down that aircraft and called for a NATO meeting is that they would get broader NATO  support for something that put NATO in a very difficult position as Putin digs  in his heels in Syria. I think what has happened is just the reverse, and we saw  that from the president today.    Far from trying to get NATO to side with Turkey in a battle against -- at least  a diplomatic battle against the Russians, the Turks are realizing that if they  don't line up, everybody from the Germans, the French, the Brits is going to  come saying, line up with NATO privately or else we're going to come out  publicly and hammer you.   
BLITZER: And now the Russians have installed in Latakiathis surface to air missile battery which potentially could affect Turkish warplanes and F-16s, but  a lot of U.S. planes are flying in that area. There could be a miscalculation  and this could trigger even greater escalation.   
CRUICKSHANK: Absolutely right, a lot of concern about what happens next, as you say, Wolf.   
BLITZER: A lot of concern indeed. All right, guys, thanks very much. We're staying on top of this story. Up next, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of  Staff says the U.S. strategy is, in fact, working, and he's not afraid to ask  for more U.S. troops on the ground, combat boots on the ground, not only in Iraq  but in Syria now. One member of the House Armed Services Committee will join us  live right after this.   
