    
HIGHLIGHT: Disturbing information about a possible motive in the attack on that Planned Parenthood clinic that killed three people, sources tell CNN that the  accused shooter, Robert Dear, mentioned, quote, "baby parts, along with  antiabortion views and anti-government statements"         
CHRISTI PAUL, CNN ANCHOR: It is always good to see you. Thank you for making time for us today. I'm Christi Paul.   
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Victor Blackwell. Good to be with you.   We are starting this morning with that disturbing information about a possible  motive in the attack on that Planned Parenthood clinic that killed three people.   
PAUL: Sources tell CNN that the accused shooter, Robert Dear, mentioned, quote, "baby parts, along with antiabortion views and anti- government statements." He  did this apparently and said this to investigators. Officials caution, it is  still too early to determine a motive until all of the evidence, however, is  examined.   
BLACKWELL: CNN also learned that propane tanks were found near the suspect's car. Authorities they believed he was trying to shoot them to cause an  explosion.   
PAUL: We are also getting a new look at Dear's past. He is believed to have lived here in this remote mountain cabin outside Asheville, North Carolina. Dear  reportedly moved to Colorado about a year ago.    A CNN affiliate reports he purchased this plot of land. It's about 65 miles from  Colorado Springs. There it is. Neighbors in the area describe it as, quote, "off  the grid" and say their contact with the alleged gunman was quite limited.       
ZIGMOND POST, NEIGHBOR OF ACCUSED SHOOTER: They were nice, really nice guy, you know? Talking to us and everything. Gave us some anti- Obama flyers, little  pamphlets and I didn't really read them. I just -- I think I used them to start  the fire in our camp fire that night.       
BLACKWELL: The president of Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains released a statement slamming the attack and here is part of it. Eyewitnesses confirm that  the man who will be charged with the tragic and senseless shooting was motivated  by opposition to safe and legal abortion.    Now, the FBI is conducting its own investigation, trying to determine if federal  charges should be filed. We have with us now to talk about this, CNN law  enforcement analyst, former FBI assistant director, Tom Fuentes.    First question here, Tom. We now know the suspect mentioned baby parts,  anti-abortion views, and anti-government views, and still no determination by  law enforcement of a motive here. What else do they need to see or hear to  determine that?   
TOM FUENTES, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, I think, Victor, at this point, even hearing that and hearing what his neighbors had to say, what his family had  to say, describing him as weird and unpredictable, you know, that does speak to  his mental condition in a way or his attitude.    But it's not firm proof that that is why that moment he was motivated to do it.  Probably is and everybody would probably think so, but, you know, at this point,  I think they still want to get more information and have more details about his  life and his attitudes.   
BLACKWELL: Is there anything short of Robert Dear saying, I went on this shooting spree because I am opposed to abortion that will help law enforcement  make that decision or are they waiting for some declaration from him?   
FUENTES: Well, obviously, a declaration would be nice, but, you know, they still have to put the full information, they are still out there investigating and  talking to people that knew him, family members, as I said.    They haven't put together the complete picture of him, and, still, you know,  it's going to be difficult in any case to say that that motive was at that  moment, unless he does like what you said, go ahead and confirm that to the  police.   
BLACKWELL: All right, so we know the FBI has launched their investigation to determine if federal charges are warranted. I want to read part of the statement  from the Attorney General Loretta Lynch.    She says this attack was a crime against women receiving health care services at  Planned Parenthood, law enforcement seeking to protect and serve, and other  innocent people.    It was also an assault on the rule of law and attack on all Americans right to  safety and security. Give us an idea of what is the table possibly federally.   
FUENTES: I think, obviously, hate crimes and similar domestic terrorism type charges, but it's very difficult, again, as mentioned earlier, to add those  extra motives to the crime.    You know, it will be easier to prove the first-degree murder of the police  officer and the other victims that were in the building as opposed to trying to  add the ideology and the specific motive and what he was thinking that morning  and all of that where he might recant that later.    You know, that just makes it a much more difficult prosecution and, in a way,  needlessly, if he can get the most severe sentence in state court.   
BLACKWELL: Tom, we are about, I guess, a day and a half since this attack ended and we still know so little about the chronology, where  specifically it began and the kind of tick tock of those six hours. Why?   
FUENTES: They haven't brought him into court and they haven't identified the names of the victims yet. So I think the police are being very methodical and  going back through their logs of the events.    There is a crisis log that's created and kept every second of this, who is doing  what, and what the orders are, and what is being thought about in terms of the  on-scene commander and what decision making may occur and when it's going to  occur, so we will get all of that.    The police, at this point, aren't in a hurry to get it out there, at least  before Monday when the court documents are filed.   
BLACKWELL: All right, Tom Fuentes, thank you.  
FUENTES: Thank you, Victor.  
PAUL: Now, of course, the Colorado Springs community, as you can imagine, you really can't imagine what they are going through, trying to reconcile all of  this and the three people who lost their lives and did so violently.    Yesterday, last night actually, there was a vigil held for Officer Garrett  Swasey, one of those victims. While the siege was going on, he actually heard  the radio call for backup.    He rushed from his post as a campus police officer to help and his colleagues  remembered him last night as a devoted officer, a husband, a father. Listen.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Garrett stood for something. Garrett stood for our American flag. He stood for justice. He stood for our university. He stood for our law  enforcement brethren. Garrett was an amazing, amazing individual.       
PAUL: Our Stephanie Elam is live in Colorado Springs. Stephanie, I know that you've learned some things about those first responders. Because when we talk  about how this affects people, the people who were there, the people who tried  to help have so much to try to reconcile. Yes?   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So much to reconcile and so much to try to figure out how to move on after such a tragedy like this, Christi, and that is  definitely the case.    We have learned more about Officer Garrett Swasey, the fact he was a national  champion figure skater and many in the figure skating communities coming out and  talking about what a nice guy he was and how dedicated he was to his sport.    And actually that's what brought him to Colorado Springs in the first place  since this is an Olympic training ground as well. We are also learning about the  other victims and the fact that we probably won't know, other than Officer  Swasey, who those other two people were who lost their lives until at the  earliest, Monday.    That's because they are waiting until the after the autopsies are done to  release those names. So we don't know who they are, but we are learning more  about what happened on Friday and what transpired.    We know that one of the officers that was wounded was a SWAT officer, Dan  Carter. We have audio that you can listen to of everything going down when he  was injured. Take a listen.       
ELAM: You can hear it's a little tense to listen to that, and a little scary to hear but that is what was going on here. As far as we know, the last count,  there are five people remain in the hospital and those nine people that were  your injured so some improvement there, but obviously still a very devastated  community here in Colorado Springs -- Christi.   
PAUL: No doubt about it, certainly our thoughts with all of those folks out there. Stephanie Elam, thank you.    Before becoming a six-year campus police veteran, one of Officer Swasey's first  loves was ice skating, and I don't know if you know this, but before becoming a  champion ice skater Swasey was skating partners with former U.S. national  champion, Nancy Kerrigan.    The two were childhood friends growing up in Massachusetts. Kerrigan said she is  heartbroken by his death and said he was like a little brother to her.       
NANCY KERRIGAN, FORMER TRAINING PARTNER OF OFFICER SWASEY: A true friend, just very loyal, and loving, caring person. Good listener. He was sort of passionate  about everything. Everything was done with great big giant smile and he had fun  in life. It's so sad. He has two young kids that they literally run to him every  time he comes in the door.       
PAUL: We are also hearing incredible stories of survival from hostages who were held at Planned Parenthood for hours. In the next hour, you're going to  hear from one woman who said she saw the gunman opening fire, saying he had no  remorse. Her compelling story of what happened inside that clinic, that's coming  up for you at 7:00 a.m. Eastern.   
BLACKWELL: This morning also we have a new look at the shooting of Tamir Rice. Prosecutors now releasing hundreds of enhanced images of what led up to the  12-year-old boy's death by Cleveland Police Department, the shooting there. Can  it help us understand, even a little better, what happened?    Also, imagine you're walking or riding along a path and you see something  moving. Hear something. Well, that happened in this community. And what was  moving there? A newborn baby pinned under the asphalt. Now the search, of  course, is on for the person who left her there.    Governor Chris Christie gets a life line, a big one, an endorsement in the key  battleground state of New Hampshire. But what is the impact?   
BLACKWELL: It's 14 after the hour now. New for you this morning, Governor Chris Christie's struggling presidential campaign is getting a much-needed shot in the  arm. It's coming after receiving this highly coveted endorsement by one of New  Hampshire's most influential newspapers.    It's an editorial by the "New Hampshire Union Leader." The paper's publisher  wrote this. "Governor Christie is right for these dangerous times. He has  prosecuted terrorists and dealt admirably with major disasters."    Other candidates have gained public and media attention by speaking bluntly. But  it's important when you are telling it like it is to actually know what you are  talking about."    Let's discuss now with CNN political commentator, Errol Louis. Errol,  good morning first. Of course, the Christie campaign would rather have this  endorsement than not, but what is the impact?   
ERROL LOUIS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I think it's tremendous impact. First of all, New Hampshire is a small state and there are only a handful of papers. The  "Union Leader," formerly the "Manchester Union Leader," is a very important  newspaper.    They endorsed Ronald Reagan in 1980. They endorsed John McCain in 2008. They  have picked some important winners and it's a brand that means a lot to  conservatives, even nationwide.    So it sure of shores up Christie's conservative bonafides to get this  endorsement and it makes it clear people will make choices about who is going to  be sort of the insider candidate, the anti-Trump, the anti-Ben Carson, the  person with actual government experience.    And in that lane, so to speak, are a handful of senators and governors. Chris  Christie wants to be in the front of that pack. He has clearly stake a lot on  New Hampshire, 35 town hall meetings and many of them lasting hours at a time.    So he has really sort of laid a huge bet in New Hampshire and this is the first  part of it starting to pay off.   
BLACKWELL: Yes. It seems like maybe nearly half of the field has bet a lot on New Hampshire. We have the latest poll here where we have got Donald Trump there  at the top at 22 percent. He is doubling up his closest competitor here.    But you go all the way down to seventh place to get to Chris Christie at 4  percent. You say that he could be the candidate that, you know, the  anti-outsiders can coalesce around. He has a lot of work to do.   
LOUIS: Well, sure. As we have said many times before, Victor, it's a very fluid field. There is some evidence to suggest that a rather large percentage of the  voters are going to make up their mind in the final two or three days before  they go into the voting booth.    Keep in mind also that New Hampshire is one of these states where anybody can  walk in and vote. You don't have to be just a registered Republican. It's sort  of an open primary so there are a lot of middle of the road independents and  even Democrats who might say, look.    I want to sort of push the direction of this election by selecting somebody who  has some government experience, somebody who is conservative and, in this case,  this is the newspaper sort of certifying him as an acceptable conservative from  their point of view.    He really has the wind at his back. This is a big day and a big deal for Chris  Christie.   
BLACKWELL: All right, Errol Louis, thanks so much and we will continue this conversation throughout the morning.   
LOUIS: Absolutely.  
BLACKWELL: Thank you -- Christi.  
PAUL: It is certainly a startling find. A newborn baby left buried under a piece of asphalt and everyone is asking now, where is the person who left her there?  We will tell you how she is doing.    Plus, he was responding to a domestic on dispute call. Now a Pennsylvania police  officer is dead and investigators are forced to find that suspect.           
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And that hole there was, I believe that is the hole and it had pieces of wood on top of it with rocks on top of it and when she took the  stuff out, she found a newborn baby.       
PAUL: Can you imagine? Two women finding a newborn buried alive along a bike path near riverbed in Compton, California. It's a baby girl. She is believed to  be 2-days-old with under a foot of asphalt and debris.    Deputies took the newborn to the hospital. She is in stable condition just so  you know. Police are looking for the person, obviously, who left that child,  that person is facing attempted murder and child endangerment charges. We will  have more on this story in the next hour as well.   
BLACKWELL: In Pennsylvania, a veteran police officer 20 years on the force was killed while responding to a domestic dispute call last night near Pittsburgh.  Investigators say 31-year-old Ray Shelter Jr. shot Officer Lloyd Reid and then  ran off. Police eventually found and arrested Shelter, that search for him took  about five hours.   
PAUL: We feel for all of you who are dealing with this wicked weather. The central plains hit hard by a winter storm. Highways iced over and power lines  ripped out and more than a dozen people have died in Texas, Kansas, and Oklahoma  from ice wrecks and heavy flooding there.    This ice and snow hitting on one of the busiest travel days of the year, I know  that so many of you are trying to get home from the Thanksgiving holiday.    Let's bring in meteorologist, Allison Chinchar. Wondering what the impact is for  all of those folks today.       
PAUL: Allison, thank you.  
BLACKWELL: It's been a little more than a year since 12-year-old Tamir Rice was shot by Cleveland police. Now we are getting a new look at the moments leading  up to his death, hundreds of new imagines released by the prosecutor's office.  We are going to break down what they show us here.    Also, President Obama, leaders from around the world, all about to go into  Paris. A major security concern after just two weeks now after the terror  attacks. We are going to go live to Paris to find out why this may not be the  biggest concern officials have to worry about.       
PAUL: Here's a look at this week's mortgage rates for you.  
PAUL: It is 6:30 right now. You're looking at police officers and community members coming together in Colorado Springs last night to honor Officer Garrett  Swasey. He was one of three people killed during an attack on a Planned  Parenthood in Colorado Springs on Friday. So it's a very solemn moment for all  of those folks there as you see them holding hands. New details this morning,  though, in a possible motive. Police sources tell CNN the suspect, Robert Dear,  mentioned, quote, "baby parts" along with anti-abortion views and  anti-government statements.    But officials cautioned it's just too early to be certain what the motive was  here. It gives us a little bit of detail, though. CNN also spoke with some of  Dear's neighbors who described this remote area where he lived and said, their  contact with him was quite limited.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have a lot of recluses out in the middle of nowhere out here.   
