    
HIGHLIGHT: The first trial of an officer involved in Freddie Gray's death is scheduled to begin.     
ROBERT BAER, CNN INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ANALYST: ... Europe and coming back that's what the Paris attack difficult to get to him.     And if in fact, he got away, I will tell you what this really tells  me if there's some sort of underground railway for this Jihadists going into  Europe and coming back, that's what the Paris attack has told us that you get in  and hit a target and then going back to Syria safely.   
ASHLEIGH BANFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: If in fact, yeah, if in fact he is there.  
BAER: If in fact he is there, yes.  
BANFIELD: Yeah, so what about the notion that we have not seen any go pro video, we have not seen any of the kinds of things that we would have expected from the  terrorists like this who are young and media savvy, we knew that go pro cameras  were found in some of these sites where raids were actually conducted and yet  nothing yet, Bob, online, and you know it's their holy grail, you know that's  what they do, they do the terror attack, and they continue to terrorize by  making people afraid of the images they see afterwards.   
BAER: Well, they don't have a fixed operating manual. Sometimes they'll use the go pro or sometimes they'll just depend upon people on the street to film the  whole thing with the iPhone cameras. They don't really care. A lot of the  operations are very ad hoc.    The Islamic state as I look at it is a franchise. So if someone wants to swear  allegiance to it, carry out an attack, they'll provide the money, they'll  provide the, you know, ways to make bombs and they'll go ahead and do these  attacks on their own.    And the less centralization there is, the more likely they're going to fly under  the radar European Security Services as well as the United States. So, you know,  discussing this back and forth in e-mail, they want to avoid that. All they  really want to do is teach this people how to make explosives, improvised  devices and where to get arms from the black arms market.   
BANFIELD: Yeah, but you know the last guy who was really reckless and showed a lot of the bravado in his online presence was Jihadi John who had a target  painted on him from above and he is now dead. That's the operating thinking at  this point, which makes me wonder if this Jihadist, Salah Abdeslam knows better  than to trumpet what he thinks are successes.   
BAER: Well, if the French catch sight of him, they'll kill him, they'll assassinate him no question about that. If he goes up online in Eastern Raqqa or  some place like that, they will bomb him and kill him. I have no doubt that the  French are after him.   
BANFIELD: All right, Bob Baer joining us live from the Telluride, Colorado. Thank you so much for your expertise today, appreciate it.    Coming up next, the horrible act that united both sides of the abortion debate,  the suspect in this weekend's Planned Parenthood slaughter due in court today,  wait until you hear what he told police just after that six-hour standoff.   
 BANFIELD: The man accused of a deadly rampage at a Planned Parenthood clinic is due to appear in court just about three hours from now.    It's going to be the first appearance for this man. By now you may have heard  his name, it's Robert Lewis Dear, Colorado recluse who is accused of killing  three people and wounding nine others in the siege in Colorado Springs on  Friday.    Police say that Mr. Dear told them that he was against abortion.    The victims, a mother, Jennifer Markovsky and Iraq war veteran Ke'Arre Stewart  and a police officer Garrett Swasey.    Officer Swasey was a former figure skater who had trained at one time with Nancy  Kerrigan. But Kerrigan spoke out about the killing.       
NANCY KERRIGAN, VICTIM'S FORMER SKATE-TRAINING PARTNER: A true friend, he was very loyal and loving, caring person. Good listener.    He was sort of passionate about everything, everything was done with a great big  giant smile, and he had fun in life. So sad, he's got two young kids that they  literally run to him every time he comes in the door.       
BANFIELD: CNN's Stephanie Elam is standing by live in Colorado Springs.   You know, there are such curiosity about this defendant, and he's about to walk  into the court appearance. Walk me through what he is going to be expecting this  afternoon.   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Ashleigh, what we understand is that it's going to be by video uplink, he's being held here where we are at right now  at the El Paso County Criminal Justice Center. And we understand he's going to  be arraigned, he's been held on without bond so far.    He'll learn the charges against him and we understand that the districts  attorney office has 10 days to either amend those charges, add more charges  against him based on what happened on Friday afternoon here in Colorado Springs.   
BANFIELD: There much of a security presence where you are given the political nature of this crime?   
ELAM: No, where we are, it's pretty secure. I wouldn't mess around with anything around here just looking around, so not a lot here. But we definitely that some  people are on edge, people who were hurt, people who are injured. There were  nine people who were injured in the shooting let alone the three people who lost  their lives.    The police though have not actually called this a crime against Planned  Parenthood even though everything happened there, they say it's going to take  them six or seven days to actually process the entire crime scene, and figure  out that that exactly was his target despite the fact that he mentioned things  about "Baby parts and anti- government sentiments, and anti-abortion  sentiments," as well.   
BANFIELD: All right, Stephanie Elam, standing by for us live, thank for that we're going to come back to you during that appearance and albeit by video link,  that there'll be some information we can glean from it.    I want to bring in my legal panel now CNN Legal Analyst Danny Cevallos and Mel  Robbins.     I am sure that the two of you having been in this business as long as  I have or maybe Danny a little shorter for you.    Immediately, we hearken back, when we saw his image to Ted Kaczynski, similar to  disheveled appearance, roughly the same age and then we saw reporting about his  living accommodations. At one point he was living in a trailer out in isolated  area in Colorado and then there was a shack, a shack in the woods, and that to  me right there brought Ted Kaczynski to mind.    And then I wondered about the kinds of defense that this man would mount. So  let's talk about insanity, because a lot of people wonder right off of the bat,  will he have any grounds for that kind of defense?   
MEL ROBBINS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Well, you know, Ashleigh, it's an excellent question, and yeah I did think of the Unabomber for sure given the similarities  and age and the fact that he was living in a shack. But there's another case  that I think a lot of our viewers are going to also think about and that is the  Aurora shooting case.    And James Holmes who was also tried to bring an insanity defense in Colorado,  and Colorado is interesting because it's one of very few states where the  prosecution has the burden of proving that he was sane. And that means legally  sane, he knew right from wrong at the moment that the crime was committed, not  medically sane.    And so he will be, I am certain, bringing a defense based on insanity, and I  find it very hard to believe that since James Holmes, the Aurora shooter was not  successful that this man will be successful. But you can bet that that's the  only defense that he's got.   
BANFIELD: So Danny, I look at the very scant facts that we have now at this early stage, he has even made this first appearance yet today. But we do know  this CNN learned that he muttered some words to the investigating officers right  away after he was brought in about baby parts and being an anti-abortionist.    And he also allegedly shot at responding officers. Into the layperson that says,  "Well, he kind of knew something must have been wrong if he was shooting at the  responders who were trying to stop him.   
DANNY CEVALLOS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Can you honed right in on the inquiry. And insanity defense which is often misunderstood.    The issue is was he aware of the wrongfulness of his actions, and that's not a  test of whether you personally believed what you were doing is morally  justified. Instead is, it's are you aware that society deems what you're doing  to be wrong.    So typically if you hide a body or run away that's evidence that, you know, that  whether or not you feel you're morally justified, you know, society deems what  you're doing to be wrong?    And I also hid it on the fact that if he has made any statements whatsoever to  the investigators, those will be used by the prosecutors to show that he had  some awareness that what he was doing was wrong, even if it's some sort of  justification, anything that he tells the investigators...   
ROBBINS: Well, even its own behavior he drove him was 50 miles, he brought a weapon, he hid and waited an ambush this people, he killed three people, I mean  his own action show that he knew what he was doing, he was purposeful, he  intended the result that he got.   
BANFIELD: Yes, it's going to be real uphill battle, even again, like I said we know scant facts at this stage, but they are bad facts already.    Danny and Mel, thank you both, appreciate it.    Coming up next, back to the top story, the death of Freddie Gray and the first  of six police officers who will stand trial successively in a row, in this type  of an environment, how do you choose just one jury? How do you choose all six  juries, impartial juries?    We're going to dig in to that with a jury consultant next.   
 BANFIELD: I want to get back to the top story now, choosing a jury for the 1st of six Baltimore police officers to go on trial in the death of  Freddie Gray. William Porter is charged with manslaughter, second-degree  assault, reckless endangerment and misconduct. So what he allegedly did not do  while Freddie Gray was in the back of a police van on roof to a lockup after  this arrest on April 12th.    Porter met up with the van on it's third stop when the driver called in for  backup. Allegedly Gray asked at least twice for a medic, but neither Porter nor  the driver obliged him nor did they buckle Gray into a seat belt which could  have prevented further injury.    I'm joined now by Andrew Alperstein who is a Baltimore Defense Attorney and  former Prosecutor and CNN Contributor, and Josh Dublin who is a jury and trail  consultant.    Welcome to the both of you and thanks so much for joining me today. If I can dig  in with you Andrew, it is often said that cases are won and lost in jury  selection, and this is the day that the jury for the very first defendant is  going to be chosen, but it is an extraordinary process in an extraordinary case.    What do you think the odds are that they are going to be able to find a proper  jury with all of the right appearances, and a fair and impartial look to the  community in Baltimore when just about everyone is connected to the case?  Andrew.   
ANDREW ALPERSTEIN, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Well, it's really difficult. I mean, you know, it's a high publicity case, and any high publicity case is challenging,  but in this case, we have a city that was under curfew. So 100 percent of the  people that live in the city were affected by the case, everybody knows about  it, everybody that live here could have been a arrested if they left the house.     Now, we are going to be putting those same people in the jury pool,  because 100 percent of jurors come from people living in a city. So by  definition, everybody knows about it. The challenge is going to be whether they  can find people who can put their personal views aside and be neutral and  impartial. I don't know how they are going to do it.   
BANFIELD: So josh, let me bring you in. As the guy that the attorneys employ to sit with them at the defense table or just behind to either give the nod or the  nix to those jurors, you know, under voir dire. We have already heard out of the  75 in the pool today that 38 of them, you know, that's roughly half of them have  some connection to crime, themselves, either a victim of crime, investigated by  law enforcement, convicted, incarcerated or under pending criminal charges. Put  yourself on the panel, on either side, and tell me what that would say to you  today.   
JOSH DUBLIN, JURY/TRIAL CONSULTANT: It says to me that this case should absolutely be moved. It is actually as alarming as the recent assaults and  murders of young men of color across this country, as alarming as that is, what  should be just as alarming is the erosion of the presumption of innocence across  this country, as made manifest by the judge. In this case is denial of a change  of venue. There couldn't be a more perfect case, a more perfect candidate than a  case like this that sparked riots, that the media coverage has been explosive,  and what you are seeing here is a judge bending the to political pressure, and  instead of upholding the constitution. There is no way, no way to get a fair and  impartial jury in Baltimore.   
BANFIELD: You know, I got to say, I have to just disagree with you only because, and I always come back to O.J., seems all roselyto O.J. They found a fair  and impartial jury in O.J. they found one in Casey Anthony, they have found one  in just about every one of these cases we assume it can't be done. Let me ask  you Andrew.   
DUBLIN: I disagree by the way.  
BANFIELD: the motion was -- well, and you're not the only person. I mean, other definitely people who disagree, but, you know, again today, that motion for a  change of venue was raised, I can only imagine it's going to be raised several  more times through the process, but is it going to be an appellant issue,  Andrew?   
ALPERSTEIN: Well, before we get to that, the judge didn't deny it. He said that he denied it right now. He wants to see if he can seat this jury. So, I think  that yes, he did deny it, but he's going to seeing how people answer these  questions. People are going to get asked the question. Do you know about it?  Sure. Everybody says yes.    The follow-up question that's going to be asked to these jurors is, can you put  your personal feels aside and be neutral and impartial, and if people say yes,  and their qualified under the Maryland law, because that we trust the answer  answers that people give under the case law, and so, if they can't get a neutral  and impartial jury, if people are say, no, we can't be neutral and impartial  then at that point then the judge might reconsider this change of venue issue.   
BANFIELD: Yeah, I've seen it in happened. I have seen through the process, and they had to up and move or they have to go to the other jurisdiction to bring in  Jurors. We have to do it six times guys, so I'm to invite you both back, because  there is going to be a lot of conversation as we go through picking stick  different juries in succession.    Thank you to both of you. Andrew Alperstein and Josh Dublin.   
ALPERSTEIN: Thank you Ashleigh. Thank you Ashleigh.  
BANFIELD: Coming up next. The hearing for the Chicago cop who killed a 17-year-old. H's charge with first-degree murder. But that has not kept angry  protesters from marching through this street and talking about a cover up.    Will he get bail?   
 BANFIELD: In just a few moments, from now the Chicago police officer who shot and killed 17-year-old Laquan McDonald is set to have a hearing. At  first, the judge ruled that Jason Van Dyke had to stay behind bars, no bond  after he was charged with first-degree murder, but that was because the judge  wanted some time to look at the video. And today at 1:00 p.m. eastern and after  having a chance to look at that picture at the series of pictures, the judge is  going to make a final determination that's the plan.    Anyway, Rosa Flores joins me live now from Chicago with the latest. So to our  expectation, the judge has had the weekend to review that very damning video,  and maybe even the other videos. But do we know anything else might happen in  the process, Rosa?   
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know, Ashleigh, if this judge watched whether it's local television or national television, he probably already  watched the videos. So what we are going to be watching today in court is  probably him making a final determination. But let me give you the background  here because like you said, Jason Van Dyke was arrested and charge in the  killing of Laquan McDonald last week, the initial bond hearing happened last  week, and the judge denied bond, but he asked about video, and at the time the  video has not been released. And so he asked for the video.    Now, we have that video for you, it is very graphic as you know, it shows Laquan  McDonald walking through the street with a knife in his right hand, and then  police cruisers were responding to the scene, including Jason Van Dyke. Now we  know from the court documents that he started to shoot six seconds after he  arrived on scene, and discharge his weapon 16 times, and according to the  autopsy report, he hit Laquan McDonald 16 time. And of course, a lot of  controversies here in the city of Chicago because of this, there were protests  through the week...   
BANFIELD: Yeah, of course.  
FLORES:: and through the weekend and of course, the defense attorney in this case saying that his client, that Jason Van Dyke acted in self-defense.  Ashleigh?   
BANFIELD: All right, Rosa Flores live for us in Chicago, presumably the judge wanting all unedited videos, television not doing the trick for him, he wanted  the real raw material. We'll see what happens Rosa is going to be covering that  for us     Thank you for watching everyone. Wolf start right now.   
