      
 CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: After the Planned Parenthood shootout, what we're finding out about the victims. An Iraq war vet, a mother, a police  officer, killed. And what we're learning about the suspect.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gave us some anti-Obama fliers, little pamphlets.  
COSTELLO: Is this domestic terrorism?  
MIKE HUCKABEE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What he did is domestic terrorism.  
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is typical left-wing tactics.  
COSTELLO: Also climate change clashes in Paris. World leaders converge.  
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This is the moment we finally determine we would save our planet.   
COSTELLO: President Obama and his Chinese counterpart meet, as smog chokes Beijing.    Plus, Donald Trump won't back down. Repeating that he saw Muslim Americans  celebrate on 9/11.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I saw it. So many people saw it, Chuck. And -- so why would I take it back? I'm not going to take it back.   
COSTELLO: He's standing firm. Will his supporters?   Let's talk. Live in the CNN NEWSROOM.       
COSTELLO: And good morning. I'm Carol Costello. Thank you so much for joining me.    There are disturbing new developments in the Paris terror investigation. Just as  we learned that other attacks were, quote, "ready to go," CNN sources tell us  that a key suspect may have already escaped to the ISIS safe haven of Syria.  Police have been searching for Salah Abdeslam since shortly after the attacks  that killed 130 people.    We're breaking it all down this morning. CNN's Chris Cuomo is in Paris with the  latest.    Good morning, Chris.   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: Hey, Carol. How are you? We have three big headlines for you. The first is, that this eighth attacker that they're looking for, we  have new information about him.    CNN has learned that French authorities believe that he is out of France and  back in Syria. How did he get there? How do they know that? They're not telling  us, but that is a disturbing development. That not only did he escape the  general area but has made it back to the homeland, so to speak, in terms of that  nexus of control of ISIS. That's one headline.    The second is that in the planning for the event, the concern is how much of it  was done locally. Were these bombs, these vests, developed locally? They  believed yes, because of the TATP being a very volatile, chemical compound. And  it turns out now that that was true and that this eighth attacker that they're  looking for actually went here locally to a pyrotechnic shop, a fireworks shop  and bought the detonators.    A man who works there came forward, talked about the conversations that were had  with this man when he was purchasing the detonators, who was asking for very  reliable devices. And the third headline tees up what you were just referring  to. There were other attacks planned and not necessarily by the same team. It's  a big concern for the authorities here. How vast is the network? How deep do the  roots go here? Of how many different personnel for teams are available? They  were looking to target Jewish places and other gathering areas. That's the intel  that came in to the French.    So those are your three headlines, Carol. And this is all taking place as we  circle through the COP 21, when they're supposed to be here, world leaders from  150 countries, talking about the climate. It's hard to do with this great  distraction of the security environment.   
COSTELLO: All right. Chris Cuomo reporting live from Paris this morning, thank you.    An emergency message for U.S. citizens in Afghanistan. The U.S. embassy has  received credible reports of an imminent attack in Kabul within the next 48  hours. It's not clear who or what the targets are, but Americans are warned to  use extreme caution in the city.    Stay with NEWSROOM for the latest on this threat.    And you heard Chris say it, President Obama and 150 world leaders converge on  Paris, a city on lockdown, with one mission, to save the planet, or at least get  some sort of handle on climate change and soaring global temperatures. The  French president, Francois Hollande, opening this morning's summit warning that  the future of life itself is at stake. And President Obama warning that climate  change could be the biggest threat facing the world today.       
OBAMA: The growing threat of climate change could define the contours of this century more dramatically than any other. And what should give us hope, that  this is a turning point, that this is the moment we finally determine we would  save our planet, is the fact that our nations share a sense of urgency about  this challenge and a growing realization that it is within our power to do  something about it.       
COSTELLO: Sound dramatic? Well, take a look at what's going on in China right now. This is Beijing, it's under an orange smog alert, that's the highest of the  year. Highways are closed down. Construction is on hold. And people are being  warned to stay indoors because the air outside is too dangerous to breathe. The  air in other cities, even worse. Bad enough to burn your eyes and leave a bitter  taste in your mouth.    CNN's Phil Black live in Paris with more. Good morning, Phil.   
 PHIL BLACK, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Carol. This opening day of the climate conference is all about those 150 leaders. One  at a time, they're taking to a podium to declare the position that their country  holds going into these negotiations. And there are some common themes through  all the speeches that we're hearing. They're all paying tribute, declaring the  solidarity with the people of France, acknowledging the great courage and the  act of defiance that Paris is showing in holding this huge conference just two  weeks after the terrorist attacks there took place.    They are all as one declaring the need to do more to deal with climate change as  a problem, not just now, but into the future, for future generations. They're  all talking about the future of the planet, the people, the way of life being at  stake here. But there is a divisive issue. President Obama touched on it when he  said that he has come here, personally, as the leader of the world's largest  economy, the world's second biggest polluter, to say that he, his country,  accepts responsibility, acknowledges the role that America has played in causing  this problem, but also embraces the responsibility of now trying to do something  about it.    And that's the trickier issue that will be thrashed out here over the coming  weeks. It is broadly accepted that rich, wealthy countries have become rich and  wealthy through burning fossil fuels, through creating the bulk of the CO2 gas  that is currently in the atmosphere. So there's a broad understanding that they  must do more to deal with the problem, but that's in the broad understanding. It  is the detail that needs to be worked out. And it's at the end of these two  weeks that it is hoped that all sides would have agreed on a process, a  framework, that will take the world forward together to what they're all  describing as a low carbon future -- Carol.   
COSTELLO: In the meantime, outside of these meetings, there have been protests in the streets. Can you tell us about those?   
BLACK: So there were plans originally, Carol, for a huge demonstration through the streets of Paris yesterday. Hundreds of thousands of people. An act of  popular will to try and get strong action at these climate talks. Of course it  wasn't allowed to take place because of the security situation here at the  moment. Big gatherings are not allowed. Most people accepted that. A few didn't.  They still gathered in the center of Paris, around what has become the central  memorial to the victims of those terror attacks.    The police responded to their presence. There were some clashes. We saw teargas.  We saw scuffles, we saw arrests, a couple of hundred according to the local  police. And some of those demonstrators did throw things at the police, as well.  Disturbingly, I think, for the French people, some of the things that were  thrown were actually candles and lanterns that had been left at the memorial to  honor the victims of the terrorist attack.    It's worth noting, though, that I think relatively speaking, it was a reasonably  small number of people. We are talking hundreds of people. And these are people  that weren't so much concerned about the environment, I think, but generally  motivated by their anger towards the French government and the restrictions on  freedoms and gatherings that their government has put into place since the Paris  attacks, Carol.   
COSTELLO: All right, Phil Black reporting live from Paris. Thank you.   The man accused of a deadly rampage at a Planned Parenthood clinic is due in  court today. It'll be the first appearance for Robert Lewis Dear. The Colorado  recluse is accused of killing three people and wounding nine others in the  siege. Police say he told them, he's against abortion. Just about an hour ago, a  top executive with Planned Parenthood talked with CNN.       
DAWN LAGUENS, EXECUTIVE VP, PLANNED PARENTHOOD: Planned Parenthood takes security very seriously, as every law enforcement official who watched the  Colorado situation said these were extremely well-trained staff. They acted  quickly. They knew exactly what to do. The health centers are well designed. The  security cameras were a help in bringing it to an end. And so, you know, I just  want people to know that Planned Parenthood is clearly committed, first and  foremost, to the health and safety of the women it sees.       
COSTELLO: CNN's Stephanie Elam live in Colorado Springs with more on the case itself. Good morning.   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning. When you take a look at the details of the story and you start to see that we now know more about the three  people that lost their lives, an officer, an Iraq war veteran, and a devoted  mother of two.       
ELAM: This morning, the two civilians killed in the brazen shooting at a Planned Parenthood in Colorado are now identified. Authorities say  29-year-old Iraq War veteran Ke'Arre Marcell Stewart and 36-year-old mother of  two, Jennifer Markovsky, were shot and killed Friday, along with university  officer Garrett Swayze, by 57-year-old Robert Dear. Investigators are now trying  to zero in on Dear's motive.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shots. I'm under fire, shots. I'm hit.  
ELAM: After a bloody six-hour standoff, leaving the three dead and nine more injured, Dear made remarks about, quote, "baby parts" after surrendering,  according to a law enforcement official. The official also says the suspect  expressed anti-abortion and anti-government views to officers. Neighbors say  Dear once gave them anti-Obama flyers.       
 ELAM: So we had some problems there with the audio. But what we can tell you is that Robert Dear allegedly told officials that he had problems with  abortion and that he had issues with baby parts. These are things that they've  heard. But we're not yet sure that he was definitely targeting the Planned  Parenthood location. That is still something that they're processing. And they  say it may take a week for them to finish processing the whole crime scene,  Carol.    Also, I can tell you where I'm standing right now is where Robert Dear is being  held, here at the El Paso County Criminal Justice Center. He will be arraigned  later today, this afternoon, via video link. Something that you see in cases  like this. But obviously, a community that's still devastated, with nine people  that were injured and then these three people that lost their lives. All of whom  had two children that we know about each. So a devastated community here in  Colorado Springs, Carol.   
COSTELLO: All right. Stephanie Elam reporting live from Colorado Springs this morning.    Still to come in the NEWSROOM, Donald Trump in the thick of two new  controversies. Scaling back claims that a set of African-American pastors would  endorse him, while ramping up rhetoric about Muslims cheering after the 9/11  attacks.   
 COSTELLO: The University of Chicago closes its Hyde Park campus over a threat. Students and faculty told to stay inside this morning after an online  post threatened gun violence at the campus quad. The FBI warning school  officials last night.    Ryan Young is in Chicago. He has more on this. Good morning.   
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Carol. Of course, it's around 8:15 here local time. This is when some people would be going to class,  with those early morning classes. And we look around the campus, we don't see  many people moving around. In fact we've seen a couple of police officers and  maybe some faculty, but this is the quad, this is the area that they talked  about the specific threat was targeting this area. Around 10:30 this morning,  that gun violence. So far we haven't seen a massive amount of movement in terms  of the area. Of course it's still very early on. That 10:30 is that time. But  people are taking this seriously, including faculty members.       
MATTHIAS STAISCH, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO FACULTY: I mean, I was surprised but maybe one becomes so sort of used to this, unfortunately, that like it didn't  sort of freak me out. I just thought, oh, well, I guess I'll have to cancel  office hours and whatever else I had planned. We just have to react to what they  thought was best, which I thought was good. Like, if there is a threat, then  people should stay away.       
YOUNG: And there is this statement from the campus, "Based on the FBI's assessment of this threat and recent tragic events at other campuses across the  country, we have decided in consultation with federal and local law enforcement  officials to exercise caution by cancelling all classes."    That's already taken effect. You've also talked about the fact, look, there's  on-campus housing in this area. They told those students to stay inside as much  as possible. And don't forget, this is where the Obamas used to live, in this  neighborhood, as well. So a lot of people are talking about this threat to the  campus. So far not a lot of people moving around here. We have seen a few people  walking their dogs. But we'll have to see what happens as the day moves on, to  see if people decide to heed the warning or come out otherwise -- Carol.   
COSTELLO: Well, at what point will they reopen the university?  
YOUNG: Well, we're told that this is going to be closed until midnight tonight, and then they'll reassess from there. We're hoping that maybe we'll get another  briefing from the FBI or local law enforcement about what they're going to do or  whether or not since there was an online threat, will they be able to track down  whoever put this threat out there.   
COSTELLO: All right, Ryan Young, reporting live from Chicago. Thanks so much.   Checking some other top stories for you at 17 minutes past. A Virginia charter  bus crashes sending dozens of college students to the hospital. According to CNN  affiliate WTVR the students were heading back to school after Thanksgiving  break. The bus rounding a curve and tipping over on its side. The bus driver  charged with reckless driving. One passenger has serious injuries. The rest  walked away with bumps and bruises.    It is a major victory for privacy advocates. Starting today the NSA is ending  its bulk data collection program. This after President Obama signed a reform  measure back in June requiring the government to get a targeted warrant or court  order to collect phone data from telecom companies.    Kobe Bryant calling it quits. The basketball star announcing yesterday that this  season, his 20th, will be his last. Bryant has five NBA championships with the  Lakers. He's faced several injuries and says, although his heart and mind are  still in the game, his body says it's time to say good-bye.       
KOBE BRYANT, LOS ANGELES LAKERS: A decision like this, you can't allow -- you can't make the decision based on, you know, outside circumstances. It has to be  an internal decision, and finally I decided to accept the fact that I don't want  to do this anymore. You know, and I'm OK with that.       
COSTELLO: Bryant first announced the news in a poem on the PlayersTribune.com, titled, "Dear Basketball."    All right. Let's talk politics now. It was once billed, at least by Donald  Trump's campaign, as an endorsement of the GOP frontrunner by 100  African-American pastors. But now several of those pastors are pushing back,  saying not only are they endorsing Trump they won't even attend the meeting. One  of them posting this on Facebook, quote, "Trump is an insult and embarrassment,  flaunting a ticket of unbridled bigotry, sexism, racism and everything that is  wrong with America."    This latest controversy comes as Trump doubles down on his claims about  celebrations after the 9/11 attacks.       
CHUCK TODD, HOST, "MEET THE PRESS": Let's go to this Jersey City comment. You said you saw this. Nobody can find evidence of this and more importantly the  article that you tweeted out that says -- that this backed you up, that in  itself, there were three or four different reports that month in New Jersey that  said it was a myth that was spread, that it was a false rumor. FBI, you name it.     Where did you see this?   
TRUMP: Chuck, I saw it on television. So did many other people.  
TODD: This didn't happen in New Jersey. There were plenty of reports. And you're feeding a stereotype 
 -- TRUMP: It did happen in New Jersey. Chuck, it did happenin New Jersey. I have hundreds of people that agree with me. And by the way --      
TODD: If they want to agree with you, that it doesn't make it true.  
TRUMP: I saw it. So many people saw it, Chuck. And so why would I take it back? I'm not going to take it back.   
TODD: You're running for president of the United States.  
TRUMP: Let me tell you something, Chuck --  
TODD: Your words matter. Truthfulness matters. Fact-based stuff matters, no?  
TRUMP: Chuck, Chuck, take it easy, Chuck. Just play it cool. This is people in this country that love our country that saw this by the hundreds, they're  calling. And they're tweeting.       
COSTELLO: OK. So let's talk about this and more. Larry Sabato is the director of the University of Virginia Center for Politics.    Good morning, Larry.   
LARRY SABATO, DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR POLITICS, UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA: Good morning, Carol.   
COSTELLO: Good morning. It does matter what a president of the United States says, but maybe it doesn't matter so much what a presidential candidate says  nowadays, right?   
SABATO: Well, it ought to. And it's not like this is an isolated incident. You know, what a surprise, we're back from Thanksgiving and there's already a couple  of Donald Trump controversies. That's pretty much been his MO throughout the  campaign.   
COSTELLO: Well, the Trump campaign is backing off one claim for the first time. It initially said that it had the endorsement of those black pastors and was  going to hold this press conference. Now the press conference has been  cancelled. What do you make of that?   
SABATO: Well, the press conference was cancelled because, clearly, some or maybe even many of those black ministers had not endorsed Donald Trump. And if they  had appeared, my guess is some of them would have taken over the mike and  explained why they were not supporting Donald Trump. So on the part of the Trump  campaign, it was a wise move after this tremendous snafu by his campaign.   
COSTELLO: So how could you misconstrue that? How can you misconstrue an endorsement by 100 pastors 
? SABATO: You can't. Again maybe it was a staffproblem. I'm trying to give a kind explanation here. It could also be, and this is another theory that's out there about Donald Trump, that he literally lives  off these controversies. It encourages his own supporters to back him more  intensely, and it sucks in all the available media light. He's a black hole for  media coverage. The more coverage he and his controversies get, the less  coverage his competitors get.   
COSTELLO: Well, maybe you have a point because, of course, we'll be watching. Some black pastors are meeting with Donald Trump. And it makes you wonder what  they'll say to him and what transpires. And will anything helpful come out of  this?   
SABATO: Well, maybe some of them saw the Arabs in New Jersey celebrating after 9/11. Maybe that's what will come out.       
COSTELLO: OK. So at least one candidate, John Kasich, he's getting tough on Trump's rhetoric. A Kasich's ad connects Trump to an infamous anti-Nazi poem. So  has the tide turned? Will you see other Republican candidates pushing back with  force?   
SABATO: Well, this is a campaign. An a campaign is a form of warfare. And if the other candidates intend to defeat Donald Trump and become the nominee, then  they'd better go after the frontrunner. He's been the frontrunner for months.  I'm amazed that it hasn't happened to this point. The other candidates have been  tiptoeing through the tulips around Donald Trump. They're afraid of him and  afraid of his followers. But hey, if they don't start mixing it up, they can't  be surprised at the outcome that's coming.   
COSTELLO: Larry Sabato, thanks for your insight.  
SABATO: Thank you.  
COSTELLO: You're welcome.   Next hour, I'll talk with one of the religious leaders who declined to meet with  Donald Trump. Bishop Paul Morton of the Full Gospel Baptist Church Fellowship in  Atlanta will be my special guest here in the NEWSROOM in the next hour.    This just into CNN, we have learned President Obama held closed-door talks with  the Russian president Vladimir Putin on the sidelines of the climate conference  in France. Russia says the meeting lasted about an hour. It's the second meeting  this month between the two leaders after a meeting at the G-20 conference in  Turkey.    This meeting of course comes as the countries are at odds over Syria and the  crisis in Ukraine. As we find out more about this meeting, of course we'll pass  it along.    Still to come in the NEWSROOM, has the rhetoric on the 2016 campaign trail and  beyond become too heated? Why the deadly shooting at a Planned Parenthood at a  center in Colorado has some saying yes.    
COSTELLO: And good morning. I'm Carol Costello. Thank you so much for joining me.    We now know who was murdered when a gunman stormed a Planned Parenthood clinic  in Colorado Springs. Officer Garrett Swasey, a police officer, Ke'Arre Stewart,  an Iraqi war veteran, and Jennifer Markovsky, a mother of two.    Later this morning their suspected killer Robert Dear will be in court. Police  sources tell CNN Dear made remarks about, quote, "baby parts," after  surrendering and expressed anti-abortion and anti- government views. If that's  why Dear allegedly killed, then what, if anything, inspired him to do it? Some  say it's the heated rhetoric that pervades our politics.       
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Planned Parenthood is calling this now an act of domestic terrorism. Do you agree with that  assessment?    BEN CARSON   
