    
HIGHLIGHT: Law enforcement officials telling CNN they still have not found a definitive and proven motive for the deadly attacks in San Bernardino.         
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to THE LEAD. I'm Jake Tapper.   We're going to begin with breaking news in the national lead. We're learning  brand-new details on that horrific shooting in San Bernardino, California, where  14 innocent people who had their lives stolen from them, we're only now learning  their names.    Just minutes ago, we learned the identity of the first of the victims. His name  is Nicholas Thalasinos. He was 52 years old. His wife, Jennifer, confirming that  he was among the murdered.    This massacre is the deadliest mass shooting to happen in the United States  since the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012. Today, we're learning  about a possible link that these killers had to terrorism. Law enforcement  officials telling CNN that it appears the male shooter, Syed Rizwan Farook, by  many accounts a devout Muslim, had apparently been radicalized and was in touch  with at least one international terrorism contact on the FBI's radar.    Both shooters were killed during an hours-long gunfight yesterday when police  tore into his rented SUV, tore it to pieces in a hail of bullets, a neighbor  capturing some of that showdown on his cell phone. CNN is covering all the new  developments, including these possible terror links with our team on the ground.    At this hour at -- the law enforcement officials in California are searching  through the Redlands garage rented by the killer couple. They're looking to nail  down a definitive motive beyond their suspicions. Authorities believe this, of  course, was a carefully staged attack.       
JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE CHIEF: There appears to be a degree of planning that went into this. Nobody just gets upset at a party, goes home and  puts together that kind of elaborate scheme or plan to come back and do that. So  there was some planning that went into this.       
TAPPER: Inside the killer couple's rental home, investigators found 12 pipe bombs, we learned today, as well as other bomb-making materials and nearly 5,000  rounds of ammunition, along with thumb drives, cell phones and computers that  are also being analyzed.    Investigators found another 1,600 rounds of ammunition inside that rented SUV  the couple used to perpetrate the horrific attack. As investigators dig into the  lives of the slain murderer, Syed Farook, and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, we are  reporting today, CNN, that sources are telling us that he was, in addition to  being a devout Muslim, apparently radicalized at some point in the last couple  years.    For more on this radicalization and the ongoing investigation, let's go straight  to CNN justice correspondent Pamela Brown, who is on the ground in San  Bernardino.    Pamela, what specifically has the FBI discovered about Farook's ties to  potential terrorists?   
PAMELA BROWN, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, first of all, Jake, my colleague Evan Perez speaking to his sources who tell him a working theory is that the  gunman, Syed Farook, may have been radicalized.    But I can tell you from folks I have been speaking with, investigators still  very puzzled about this case. We know the FBI is still stepping in and at this  point still trying to determine whether this was a case of terrorism or a  workplace dispute or perhaps a blend of both.       
BROWN: FBI investigators are looking at indications Syed Farook may have been radicalized. Phone communications reveal the gunman had been in touch  with FBI terrorism subjects over the last several years, though officials say  they were not considered high- priority subjects.   
BURGUAN: He was not on the radar screen of our agency prior to yesterday.  
BROWN: Law enforcement officials say Farook's behavior at a company holiday party Wednesday raised concerns with at least one witness.   
BURGUAN: We did have some initial information that he left under some kind of duress or as if he was angry. We also had somebody else say that he just kind of  disappeared. We don't know where he went from there.   
BROWN: He later returned to launch his attack.   Patrick Baccari shared a cubicle with Farook and worked with him for three  years. He was drying his hands in the restroom when the shooting began.   
PATRICK BACCARI, CO-WORKER: I thought somebody booby-trapped the towel dispenser because I was being pummelled when I was pulling the towels out of the  dispenser. And so I looked back in the mirror. I could see I was bleeding in my  temple, my nose, and then there's other little fragments. They hit me all over  the place.   
BROWN: One reason investigators believe this might have been more than just a workplace dispute is the cache of explosives and ammunitions they found.  Officials say it's clear there was planning before the attack.       
BURGUAN: If you look at the amount of obvious preplanning that went in, the amount of armaments that he had, the weapons and the ammunition, there was  obviously a mission here. We know that. We do not know why.   
BROWN: Right now, investigators are scrutinizing Farook's overseas travel. CNN has learned he traveled to Saudi Arabia in 2013. During that time, officials  believe he met his Pakistani-born wife, Tashfeen Malik, who helped Farook carry  out the attack.    Farook was born in the U.S. and a dating profile he had set up said he's from a  -- quote -- "religious and modern family" and -- quote -- "enjoys traveling and  just hanging out in the backyard doing target practice" with his younger sister  and friends.    Farook's family says they are stunned.   
FARHAN KHAN, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF FAROOK: I have no idea. Why would he do that? Why would he do something like this? I have absolutely no idea. I am in shock  myself.       
BROWN: And we know some key evidence is being sent right now to the FBI lab in Virginia.    What investigators are waiting for anxiously right now are the returns from the  findings on his laptop, on his phones, as well as his wife's phones. That could  be key in helping investigators determining if this was in fact an act of  terrorism or not -- Jake.   
TAPPER: Pamela Brown, thank you so much.   With me now, Phil Mudd, former CIA counterterrorism official, and Shawn Henry,  former executive assistant director at the FBI and president of the security  firm CrowdStrike.    Thanks to both of you for being here.    Phil, right now, what steps are law enforcement officials taking to gather as  much information as they can about these individuals? We all suspect we might  know what the motive is. But they don't seem -- the FBI and others don't seem  100 percent positive that they can state it outright.   
PHILIP MUDD, CNN COUNTERTERRORISM ANALYST: I wouldn't be worried about motive right now. You have got to think about rings of investigation. The first is  imminent threat. Is there anything in terms of conversations with neighbors,  with family, or friends, on his Facebook page that suggests there's another  event out there? The second ring right outside that is co-conspirators. Are  there other people who were involved who might go out and do something today or  tomorrow? Then you step back for just a moment and say are there people who are  aware, are there people who provided training, who heard him talk about a  conspiracy six months ago, a year ago?    So you got to first look at the issue of imminent threat, public safety. The  motivation issue is interesting, but right now that doesn't have to do with  imminent threat. That has to do with preventive measures down the road. I  wouldn't be focused on that right now.   
TAPPER: Shawn, how long does it take to prepare for something like this? Because, obviously, as the police chief said, they didn't -- he didn't just have  a fight at work or at this Christmas party, go home and then come back with all  these guns and all these bombs with wearing the outfit he was wearing.   
SHAWN HENRY, FORMER EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT FBI DIRECTOR: Yes, it's certainly going to take time to find those weapons, to get the ammunition, and that was a pretty  substantial amount of ammunition, putting those bombs together. Acquiring the  materials, et cetera, is going to some take time and likely had some help, very  big possibility.    One thing I would mention, what Phil said, he's absolutely right. The imminent  threat is going to be the top priority. But as you start to determine what the  motive is, you might also uncover some intelligence that would also help assist  if there's something down the road that you might be able to prevent.   
TAPPER: And, Phil, law enforcement said Farook had an explosives lab in his home, where they discovered at least 12 IEDs or pipe bombs. How easy are these  to put together?   
MUDD: Too easy. If you're looking, for example, at triggers that might indicate to law enforcement or intelligence officials that there's an attack in place,  this is the kind of thing you can learn to do over the Internet.    So if you're looking at a trigger that might lead somebody, the FBI, for  example, to say, look at this guy, he might stage something imminently, the kind  of information he's acquiring to build a pipe bomb doesn't take a lot of  expertise. I'm not looking at that necessarily as a trigger that tells me this  guy's going to conduct an operation.   
TAPPER: And, Shawn, there seems to be this question of, was it terrorism, was it workplace violence? But Paul Cruickshank, one of our terrorism advisers, has  noted there have been several instances of both, where somebody has committed  terrorist attacks, ISIS-inspired, against their co-workers.    In September 2014, Moore, Oklahoma, a suspect beheaded one woman, attacked  another. And that was considered terrorist. In June 2015, Leon, France, somebody  else hung and then I think beheaded his boss. And then I believe he took a  picture and sent it to ISIS. So it can be a combination.   
HENRY: You know, Jake, we have talked about this before. What makes somebody move from being aspirational to being operational, where they're actually taking  action, they're acquiring the weapons, and then they're asserting an act?    Is there something that happened in the workplace where this person possibly  could have been inspired, radicalized, and there's something that happened in  the workplace that caused them to take their action out there? As opposed to  some random place, they're motivated by a particular act or a particular person  in the workplace.   
TAPPER: Although, Phil, we also know that he rented this car, which does suggest that there was some sort of planning to do it at this point.    I mean, the cache of weapons, that could be at any point you could do that,  including with the bombs. But the idea you're renting a car, that suggests the  sort of imminence if you're using the SUV for that purpose.       
MUDD: That's right.   It clearly, in terms of the acquisition of the vehicle, the amount of rounds  they had, suggests that there was planning involved here. But we're too quick to  say black, white, terrorism, nonterrorism. I would step back and say, there are  hybrids here. You can have a hybrid that says, I have been disadvantaged in the  workplace. People are prejudiced against me. I should be moving forward more  quickly. And, by the way, there's a motivation out there provided by some  preacher on the Internet that says that the murder of innocents is acceptable.    I think we're way too quick to categorize this into a simple basket. It's not  clear to me that we have a cut-and-dry case here, Jake.   
TAPPER: All right. Phil Mudd, Shawn Henry, thank you so much for your expertise.   And 300 police officers all tracking down two suspects, and in just hours after  the shooting started, those two suspects had been tracked down and had been  killed, the car chase, police shoot-out and the tactics used to find them so  quickly -- next.   
 JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to THE LEAD. I'm Jake Tapper.   It has been a tragically eventful 24 hours for law enforcement in San  Bernardino. Within just two hours after the loud, bloody massacre, multiple  agencies swiftly went in piecing together evidence and witness accounts to track  down this man, Syed Rizwan Farook, and his wife Tashfeen Malik, armed with 1,600  bullets and bombs.           
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: San Bernardino and Shedden, I see one guy down and one guy in the back of a car.   
TAPPER: A mess of blood and broke glass left in the wake of a violent final act with the two suspects accused of murdering 14 people.    The last hours of their twisted plan played out like this: 11:00 a.m. Pacific,  law enforcement swarm in after reports of multiple active shooters at San  Bernardino's Inland Regional Center. Hundreds of workers are evacuated by  police.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Try to relax. Everyone try to relax.  
TAPPER: But the shooters remain unaccounted for.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'll take a bullet before you do. That's for damn sure. Just be cool, OK?   
TAPPER: Tim Hillard was filming the chaos from his office.  
TIM HILLARD, WITNESS: I see two bodies, one hunched over on a bench looks like a male to be deceased and another female 15 feet away laying in a pool of blood.   
TAPPER: Two hours later, police remain unaware of the killers' whereabouts.  
SGT. VICKI CERVANTES, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: At least one of the shooters may have left in a black SUV.   
TAPPER: Three-twenty p.m., just miles from the massacre, police engage in a shootout with those inside that vehicle.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Working from positions of advantage right now.  
TAPPER: Firing nearly 400 rounds.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, my gosh.  
TAPPER: Terrified neighbors watch -- as a chase that began near the suspect's apartment ends with both shooters dead.    Five-thirty p.m. Pacific, law enforcement return in force to the apartment with  a search warrant, unsure of who or what is inside.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Come to the front door. It's the FBI.  
TAPPER: Worried about booby-traps, police send a robot eventually to break through the door.    Back at the regional center, the scene is just as fragile. A cluster of pipe  bombs are discovered.   
CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: They're taking a very cautious, slow approach to processing that building and rendering that safe.   
TAPPER: Ten p.m. Pacific, some resolution.  
BURGUAN: The two suspects that were in that car are both deceased. And I have their names.       
TAPPER: Joining me from San Bernardino, California, is retired police chief Jim Buerrmann, formerly of the Redlands, California Police Department. As well as  CNN law enforcement analyst Arthur Roderick, a former assistant director of the  U.S. Marshals.    Arthur, let me start with you. The law enforcement response yesterday is being  applauded. It's being heralded. What about it do you think was particularly  effective?   
ARTHUR RODERICK, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: I think the fact that usually in these types of situations responses are anywhere from seven to 12 minutes. This  was a 4-minute response. And I think because of that immediate response, they  were able to collect information right away that led them to the actual suspect  vehicle, which I think and I've talked to a lot of my law enforcement friends  out there, and I think that they were ready to hit a second target or either  come back and possibly hit the same location where the C.P. was being set up and  the triage area was being set up.   
TAPPER: Chief Buerrmann, these two killers were armed to the teeth as Art suggests with more than 1,600 rounds of ammunition in their car, 5,000 rounds at  their home, along with 12 pipe bombs. How do police train to deal with  individuals who are packing that kind of heat?   
JIM BUERRMANN, PRESIDENT, THE POLICE FOUNDATION: Well, I think every situation is different, but they're trained to protect themselves. And when somebody  engages them in the kind of gunfire that they did, they're going to return with  a lot more gunfire if possible. And that's what you saw yesterday.   
TAPPER: Art, given the weapons used, the level of preplanning that is suspected, do you believe as you just suggested that they had other attacks planned? Does  that seem likely to you?   
RODERICK: No, that's fine.   I think they did. I think they did have other attacks planned. And I think  because of the quick response and the fact that that police officer kind of ran  into them as they were coming back to the Redlands house is exactly what stopped  those future attacks.    To have that amount of ammunition, those weapons, those pipe bombs in that  vehicle, I think they were heading to another location to do some more damage. 
BUERRMANN: I completely agree with the fact they were masked up, they didn't want anybody to identify them. The fact that they went through the house in  Redlands where there was more ammo and they had the amount of ammunition and  weaponry they had with them and the fact even after the police are chasing them  and they're engaged this that gun battle, they're heading back to the original  scene knowing full well there are hundreds of police officers there indicating  they had something else up their sleeve.   
 TAPPER: Chief, were you surprised at all that the killers were found and taken down so quickly?   
BUERRMANN: No, not really. I think it's fortunate they did. They obviously could have taken steps to get out of the area, but the law enforcement agencies in  this region cooperate really, really well. And when that mutual aid call went  out, there were hundreds of police officers that got into this area very, very  quickly. And everybody in the whole east valley part of this county was looking  for these folks.    So, it doesn't surprise me at all because we've seen this happen not with  incidents that are anywhere near this horrific but with other kinds of things  like bank robberies or other kinds of shootings.   
TAPPER: Art, how likely do you think it is that there are other individuals out there who were part of this conspiracy who may also be posing a danger, as we  just heard former CIA official Phil Mudd talk about?   
RODERICK: I think there has to be. When you look at the logistics, the communication that went into this, the planning, there has to be other people  that helped them out there. I think one of the key parts too is in these  responses by law enforcement, the law enforcement officers, the first ones on  the scene are basic patrolmen. They have a handgun, they might have a shotgun.  They have a standard vest.    And they're going up against somebody with an AR-15 or AK-47, that puts them at  a huge disadvantage. We have to start looking at how our first responders are  equipped when they go into situations like this.   
TAPPER: And, Chief, I'm not sure if you've seen the footage but we just aired it and there is a scene where one of the officers inside the Inland Regional Center  is -- he's evacuating employees out of the building and he says, I'll take a  bullet before any of you. How important --       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'll take a bullet before you do, that's for damn sure.      
TAPPER: There you just heard it. How important is that kind of reassurance in a situation like this?   
BUERRMANN: Well, it's critically important. These people were tremendously traumatized. I mean, if you can kind of envision what they were going through,  they've had the scare of their life. I can't even imagine what they were going  through. And to have somebody like a police officer come in and make that heroic  statement to them that they believe because he means it, he is going to do that,  he is going to take a bullet before he lets somebody hurts them, gives those  people who had their life shattered, gives them some hope they're going to get  out of this thing alive.   
TAPPER: All right. Former Redlands police chief, Jim Buerrmann, and Arthur Roderick, thank you so much. Appreciate it.    Communications with more than one suspected terrorist overseas, new details are  coming in right now about the male shooter's radicalization. That's next.    Plus, his wife -- what do we know about her? What do we know about her role in  this plot? What could possibly drive the mother of a 6- month-old baby to drop  off the child and then participate in this horrific act?   
 TAPPER: Welcome back to THE LEAD. I'm Jake Tapper.   We're continuing with our breaking news. Right now law enforcement officials  telling CNN they still have not found a definitive and proven motive for the  deadly attacks in San Bernardino. They are, of course, coming through the  backgrounds of the killers, Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik to  piece together a picture of what specifically motivated the shooting.    Sources tell CNN that Farook, a devout Muslim by many accounts may have been  radicalized. He did recently travel to Saudi Arabia where he met his wife.    Let's get right to CNN justice reporter Evan Perez. He's been speaking to his  sources.    Evan, I have to say there are a lot of people out there saying obviously this is  Islamic terrorism.   
EVAN PEREZ, CNN JUSTICE REPORTER: Right.  
TAPPER: Law enforcement not there, at least not yet. Why?  
PEREZ: They're really not there. And right now frankly the working theory they have is this might well be one of those hybrid cases where someone might have  radicalization in their background, but also perhaps had some working beef, some  beef with people at his workplace. And that's perhaps maybe what triggered the  shooting yesterday or at least played a role.    We do know that they believe that there are indications that there was  radicalization that was happening there with this shooter, and perhaps his wife  as well. The fact that you have two of them carrying out this shooting together  leaving behind their 6-month-old daughter really does break the mold from some  of the cases that we have seen recently, Jake.    And also, the fact they're looking at some of the contacts that he's had with  people who have been on the FBI's radar counterterrorism investigations. They  were not. They were not known at all until this event yesterday.    But they had contacts with people. So now the question is what do those contacts  mean?   
TAPPER: Right.  
PEREZ: Right now, it doesn't appear to be a lot, but that's something the FBI's chasing down.   
TAPPER: Of course, there have been these hybrids before. We talked about it earlier in the show in Moore, Oklahoma. In Lyon, France, individuals seemly  inspired by ISIS killing co-workers or in one case a boss.    But one of the things that's so odd about this case in addition to the husband,  wife and dropping off the 6-month-old is the amount of supplies that these two  have. This wasn't just a couple with a knife.    Do investigators have any idea how they got the components to make these IEDs?  To acquire 1,600 rounds of ammunition on them as well as thousands more. And was  it legal?   
PEREZ: Right. That's the thing. I mean, everything that they had appears to have been legal. The improvised explosive device that they left behind at the first  scene at the first shooting was made -- was a rudimentary device. It was not a  very sophisticated device.   
