    
HIGHLIGHT: In the wake of the San Bernardino shooting, politicians immediately suited up in their usual jerseys and resorted to the same old playbooks.  Republicans again said it was time to pray. The "New York Daily News" run a  controversial cover noting that God wouldn't fix this. Tashfeen Malik reportedly  pledged her allegiance to ISIS on Facebook at roughly the time of the San  Bernardino attack.     
 CHRISTI PAUL, CNN ANCHOR: That's going to do it for us, here. Victor and I, both back at 10:00 but do stay with us. "SMERCONISH" is next.   
MICHAEL SMERCONISH, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Michael Smerconish. Here we go again. That's what my colleague Brooke Baldwin said here on CNN Wednesday as the earliest news  started trickling out of San Bernardino.    She meant semi-automatic weapons, innocent victims, lockdown, manhunt,  shoot-out, manhunt, fear, outrage. But here we go again, sadly, also applies to  what came after.    Politicians immediately suited up in their usual jerseys and resorted to the  same old playbooks. Republicans again said it was time to pray. The "New York  Daily News" run a controversial cover noting that God wouldn't fix this.    Democrats again made calls for gun control. The "New York Times" tried something  different, putting an editorial on the front page of this morning's newspaper,  the first time they've done that since 1920, calling for outlawing of civilian  ownership of weapons capable of mass killing. But will it make any difference?    More telling is that my most popular tweet of the week by far was when I quoted  a "Times" blogger wondering why the paper even has a comment section on such  stories since it can used use "the same ones each time there's a mass shooting  in the USA."    This morning, news broke that ISIS radio claiming the San Bernardino attack was  carried out by supporters yet when we learned in the midst of the attack that  the female shooter had posted a tribute on Facebook to the leader of the ISIS,  that simply rebooted the tiresome debate whether to use the words radical Islam.  Now you would think the presidential campaign season might offer an opportunity  for the airing of detailed plans to combat ISIS, but no.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I would handle it so tough, you have no idea. You don't want to hear, you don't want to hear how I'd handle it.       
SMERCONISH: Instead, sound bites get rewarded, especially that candidate whose deep thinking on ISIS consists of a platform to build a wall, create a Muslim  database and kill the families of ISIS members. Look when 9/11 happened, the  country rose above partisan politics.    Now we're so polarized that in the words of columnist Reuben Naverret, quote "we  may not have to worry about our enemies defeating us, we're together a splendid  did job all by ourselves."    Now to talk about the impact of the latest shootings on the 2016 race, I'm  joined by Karl Rove, he, of course, was a senior adviser to President George W.  Bush. He previously was involved in more than 75 campaigns for president,  governor, senator. And he's just published a very relevant book. "The Triumph of  William McKinley, why the election of 1896 still matters."    Karl, I read and thoroughly enjoyed the book. I'll get to it in a moment. React,  if you would, to my commentary.   
KARL ROVE, FMR. SNEIOR ADVISER TO PRES. GEORGE W. BUSH: Well, I think you're right. The initial response to this was to fall back into the old pattern. But  let's realize, this is not the old pattern. This is an internationally-inspired  act of terrorism inside our borders. We had people who appear to have been  radicalized over the internet. There may have been some seeds planted in Miss  Malik's background, her upbringing in Pakistan and in Saudi Arabia. In Pakistan,  it appears when she graduated from college in an area that's known to have  sectarian strains, that she destroyed her personal computer telling family  members that it contained personal information on it.    So maybe the seeds of radicalization were there. But this is not an issue of gun  violence or workplace violence. This is an act of terrorism inside our borders.  And we should not freight this with either discussions in my opinion about gun  control or about the efficacy of prayer. We ought to focus on why this happened  and realize that America's future is at stake.    If we do not resolve and fight them abroad, we're going to see more instances  like this here. These people associated themselves with the Islamic state,  apparently, not because the Islamic state is losing but because the Islamic  state looks like it's winning in the Middle East. And until we push them back,  until we make it, in essence, unattractive to be associated with the people who  are losing strength, being killed. People losing power, people being wiped out,  we're going to see more of these, not less of these.   
SMERCONISH: Well, let's talk about how it will impact the 2016 race. I've got some data points that I want to run through with you. A brand-new CNN ORC  survey, just released this week although conducted before the attack in San  Bernardino. There you see it, Donald Trump at the top of the heap with 36  percent of the vote.    Karl, what I find of significance is that he wins all the internals, including  when you ask the question regardless of who you're voting for, who is best  equipped to handle ISIS, Trump comes out with 46 percent of Republican support  followed by Ted Cruz at 15. Analyze that for me. Why is he being perceived among  Republicans as the being best equipped to deal with ISIS?       
ROVE: Because he looks the toughest. I mean, he is - loo , he has a sound bite. And the people attracted to Trump are not really interested in - you know, and  policy statements, that are not really interested on the fact that he's been all  over the board on this.    Remember, it was a matter of weeks ago in which he dismissed the ISIS threat. He  said leave it to the Russians to take care of. Then he said, you know what, let  ISIS take out Assad in Syria. Now, he wants to bomb the expletive out of ISIS.    So they really don't care the specifics of the policy. As long as he's up there  pounding the podium and saying I'm going to be so tough there's an element  inside the Republican party that is attracted to that strong man image.    Now, whether or not it's enough to win the nomination is really up in the air.  I'd be careful about reading too much into any one given poll. This particular  poll is an outlier in terms of the sense of the strength. If you look at the  real clear politics average he's seen there in the high 20s. 27, 28, 29. But he  has shown an inability - there's been an episodic poll that has shown him lower  and higher than that and some had shown him lower than that.    But the average is in the high 20s and in resistance inside the Republican Party  - look, he has the highest unfavorables and lowest -- excuse me, lowest  favorables and highest negatives of any of any of the major candidates. Then you  take him into the general election campaign, and his image gets even worse.   
SMERCONISH: But nevertheless, in the same survey I think it was echoed by the Quinnipiac data that came out this week, 52 percent say they believe he has the  strongest chance to win the general election. I think Karl Rove just told me,  you don't agree with that?   
ROVE: Well, no I agree - that's what they think now. But if you go back to 2012 you'll find a period of time where people thought Herman Kane had strongest  chance of becoming the nominee and Newt Gingrich had the highest chance of being  the nominee. In the aftermath of the New Hampshire primary in 2000, people  thought John McCain had the best chance of becoming the republican nominee.    So you need to differentiate between the questions and the poll that ask people  to comment as spectators and pundits and those that say what do you believe  about what you're going to do.   
SMERCONISH: OK. So I'm asking you directly - what do you believe, do you believe that he's the republican who has the best shot of winning the White House? Yes  or no?   
ROVE: No. SMERCONISH: Who is?  
ROVE: Well I don't know but think he has a high floor and a low ceiling. I think you have to look at the candidates who have higher favorables and lower knowing  negatives who a lot more people could see themselves voting for than Trump.  Trump has the strength that comes from being a strong definitive personality. He  also has the weakness that that includes things like disparaging Latinos. That  it involves mocking a disabled reporter. That it involves calling every one of  his opponents a clown, a looser and a moron. These are not the kind of things  that ignite the party.    In order to win the nomination, a candidate has to unite the party at some  point. You can't simply win the nomination by saying everybody else who is  running against me is a jerk. So are there supporters in essence. You know,  calling people and mocking people inside the party who are accomplished  individuals, who have supporters and adherence to their own the kinds of things  that he calls them is not, in my opinion, a winning recipe for either uniting  the party or winning the nomination with the united party and carry it into the  general election.    You mentioned my book, we have a candidate in the 1896 campaign William Jennings  Brian who excoriates most, a big chunk of the country. He announced that he's  going to accept his - the party's nomination in New York. He announces at a  train station in Lincoln, Nebraska, I go on to the enemy's country. And he  attacks his opponents as tools of the Wall Street blood suckers and the money  grubbers of Lombard Street and shylocks of the Rothschilds.    I mean, he uses language that is designed to divide the American people and it  helps divide the American people and it helped divide them against himself,  particularly when his opponent, William McKinley uses language designed to draw  the country together. In which he says, we're all in this together. We're a  common country no east, no west, no south, quoting George Washington.   
SMERCONISH: Here's what I thought of as I read your book. I thought of - and I've got a slide to show you on this. I thought of the fact in 1988, Papa Bush,  Bush 41, gets 59 percent of the white vote and it earns him 426 electoral votes.  2012, Mitt Romney same percentage, guess what -- it's only worth 206 electoral  votes.    Due to a variety of factors not the least of which is the changing demographic  of the country. What I learned from your book is that William McKinley saw the  need to build the tent. So who is the tent- builder in this array of GOP  candidates?       
ROVE: Well it's almost everybody except Donald Trump and to a lesser extent Ted Cruz. Ted Cruz says "the way we can win this election is get a missing army of  conservatives who have historically reliably voted Republican and then didn't do  so in 2012 because Mitt Romney was a liberal. That's simply not true. You look  at the exit polls there are 580,000 more self identified conservatives who  turned out to vote in 2012 than the previous high in 2008. And 2.2 million more  conservatives voted for Mitt Romney than voted for John McCain. You're right, 59  percent of the white vote went for Mitt Romney, 59 percent went for George W.  Bush in 2004, 59 percent or thereabouts, in 1988.    And in 1984, but what McKinley looked at was the changing demography of the  country in which there were increasing numbers of Catholic industrial workers,  particularly in our big cities, in the midwest. And people who were not from the  historic places that we've got immigration before. We had for decades had  immigration coming primarily from the British isles, England, Scotland, Wales,  Ireland and from Germany and increasingly in the 1970s, 80s and 90s, we had  increasing amounts of immigration from new places. Scandinavia, from the  Ukraine, from Belarus, from southern Europe - from Spain and Portugal.    And McKinley was smart enough to say "my party's only going to be able to win if  I can draw those people into my coalition." In which he did, he got 37 percent  more votes than his predecessor had done.   
SMERCONISH: But respectfully, I don't see the outreach taking place today - I mean McKinley, as you document, was the first candidate to openly go campaign  for black vote.   
ROVE: Right.  
SMERCONISH: Where is the outreach? I mean, you say everybody but Trump and to a lesser extent Cruz. I don't see it happening with these other candidates?   
ROVE: Well, Michael, first of all - remember, he does this outreach in the year of the general election after he's largely secured the nomination. So there's  plenty of time left. But look at the language. Look at the people who  acknowledge this is the issue and whether it is Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio, Rand  Paul, Chris Christie, John Kasich and others you find plenty Republican  candidates who say we need to have the confidence in our conservative messages  to carry to every community in America, young people, Latinos,  African-Americans, Asian-Americans, people who have not voted for us before and  it's been - I thought it was a good sign.    When you have Rand Paul saying I'm going to go to Berkeley. And Jeb Bush saying  why don't we campaign more in the Latino community. And Marco Rubio speaking  Spanish to Spanish-speaking audiences, when you have all of these candidates  acknowledging we need to broaden our party and grab this demographic because we  ought to have confidence that they will be attracted to our conservative views,  I find that heartening.    And the question is going to be - do they do it in the general election. Right  now, they're focused on the one of the nomination as McKinley was. But McKinley,  when he secured the nomination and therefore was 
 - SMERCONISH: I lost Karl Rove,what a shame because I was so eager to say to him and it's almost unfair to raise it "are you saying that they can't make that case to expand the tent until  after primary season?" To be continued.    What do you think? Tweet me @smerconish. I'll read some of the best at the end  of the program.    Coming up, in the wake of another shooting, Americans are on edge, but is our  fear unfounded? A guest of mine thinks our reaction is overblown.    But first, Karl Rove just mentioned Senator Rand Paul. Well, he's here to  respond to today's front page editorial of "The New York Times."       
SMERCONISH: "End the gun epidemic in America." That's the headline on this morning's front page of "The New York Times." It's an editorial, though. This is  the first time an editorial has been on the front page of the "Times" since  1920. And it's calling out politicians for their inaction after so many of these  mass shootings occurring more than once a day.    Here's what the "Times" says in part, "America's elected leaders offer prayers  for gun victims and then callously and without fear of consequence reject the  most basic restrictions on weapons of mass killing." Presidential candidate Rand  Paul is one of the politicians who has been criticized for calling for prayer  instead of gun control. Perfect timing. He joins me now, unfortunately, from  outside in Iowa to respond to the "The New York Times." Senator, what do you  make of what they said on the front page?   
SEN. RAND PAUL, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well I think people disparaging prayer are kind of out of line. But I also think when you talk about the need  for gun control, we might want to discuss the fact that California has the most  stringent gun control in the country. We also might want to make a point here  that this is less about g.un control and more about terrorism.    I think the fact that the president and other partisans immediately jumped on  tragedy, you know, our response was, we were praying for the victims. Sometimes,  you do have prayer when you're at a loss for things that can be done. I'm not  sure gun control is the answer. I think if you have very strict gun control,  what will happen is the people who are law abiding citizens will not be able to  get guns, but criminals always seem to be able to get guns.    I think terrorists do. We do need to stop terrorism. We need to, I think talk  about who comes into this country. That's what I've been talking about having  rules about who comes to visit us and who comes to live here 
. SMERCONISH: Areyou a second amendment purist? In other words, are there any weapons that Rand Paul would say, now, that's not for civilian use?   
PAUL: If people want to change the second amendment - you know, there is a process for changing the constitution. Our founding fathers made it difficult,  because freedom of speech, freedom of religion, right to bear arms, they didn't  want to make it easy for government to change these things. We do have some  restrictions. And the Supreme Court has ruled that there can be some  restrictions.    Well, people need to understand this - the most strict of restrictions are in  California, and yet, these weapons were still purchased legally. Really, the  question is, are we going to continue to have unlimited immigration from the  Middle East? I think we have to talk about whether the need to have some limits  on those who are coming from the Middle East, since we don't know really who's  already here. And how many people who have come want to attack and kill us.       
SMERCONISH: Senator Paul, Karl Rove was here at the outset. I don't know if you got to hear the interview. It sounded to me like he was advocating going  overseas and confronting ISIS. You know there's a lot of tough talk among your  colleagues. This week, you said that Senator Rubio much like Hillary Clinton is  a supporter of regime change, what were you referring to?   
PAUL: You know, Hillary Clinton and Marco Rubio were for regime change in Libya. But that led to disaster. When we topple Khadafi, we got chaos and now a third  of Libya pledges allegiance to ISIS. So I think Rubio and Clinton's foreign  policy of regime change has actually made us less safe. But it's the same in  Syria.    If your goal is to topple Assad, my fear is that ISIS will take over. So Rubio's  advocacy for arming the allies of ISIS, the allies of Al Qaeda and Syria has  been a disastrous policy. I think it has made us less safe. So this is a debate  we need to have. It's an important part of the presidential debate. But it's  interesting that both Marco Rubio and Hillary Clinton seem to have the same  foreign policy.    They've also advocated for a no-fly zone in an area in which Russia already fly.  So the question to Marco Rubio has to be, are you prepared to, are you  advocating shooting down Russian jets? It appeared the other day as if he was  advocating for that and has made me very worrisome to get a commander in chief  that is so eager for war, so reckless.   
SMERCONISH: Is there room for you in this incarnation of the GOP, I'm mindful of your standing in the CNN poll which is not too strong. And when we asked about  who's best equipped to handle foreign policy. You certainly don't rate anywhere  near the top.    I know, I think your argument, your argument is that opening bases overseas in  response to attacks like we have seen doesn't necessarily make us safer. And  might in fact, make us less safe. Can you get traction with that kind of a  message in this Republican Party?   
PAUL: I think it's interesting when you poll the question was the original Iraq war a good idea, did it make us safer? Even close to a majority of Republicans  are concerned that the first Iraq war didn't accomplish its purpose and made us  less safe. I think the arguments can be made and I think there's a significant  amount of Republicans but actually I think there's a vast majority of Americans  who aren't for sending half a million sons and daughters of America back into  Iraq.    I think the ultimate victory, the ultimate peace the long-lasting peace will  come when Sunni Muslims actually defeat thisthat's coming from  their ranks. I don't think they're going to accept the victory from Shiites. I  don't think they're going to accept the victory from Americans or Europeans.    I think what will happen is we have the political or military might to do it but  what happens is another generation or another reincarnation of this  ideology. I think you stamp it out when Islam rises up, when civilized Islam  rises up and says we've had enough of this barbarity.   
SMERCONISH: Donald Trump says we should bomb the crap out of them. Donald Trump says we need a database perhaps for Muslims. Donald Trump says we should  contemplate taking out ISIS family members.   
PAUL: And I've also supported arming the Kurds. I think arming those in Syria, arming the allies of Al Qaeda, letting $1 billion of U.S. humvees fall in the  hands of ISIS is all a mistake.   
SMERCONISH: I guess my question is, does it frustrate you that the tough talk seems to be selling so well within our party?   
PAUL: I think we lost our connection.  
SMERCONISH: Lost our connection.   All right. I'm two for two today. I lost with Karl Rove, I now lost with Rand  Paul. At least I'm in good company. Thank you, Senator Paul.    Up next - more than ever before, Americans are looking over their shoulders but  is our fear of terror an overreaction? Next is a man who says, yes, it is.       
SMERCONISH: Fear matters. In politics. That's the take-away from this week's attack in San Bernardino.    The execution of 14 took place against the backdrop of a contentious  presidential campaign. A CNN-ORC poll released yesterday but conducted before  that attack show Donald Trump firmly in the lead with 36 percent of the vote.  Trump led on each of the issue. When asked regardless of who you're voting for,  which is the candidate best able to handle ISIS? Forty six percent of  Republicans said Trump, followed by Ted Cruz who is only 15 percent of the vote.    Trump's words have been calibrated to address the concerns of many Americans. He  famously wants to build a wall along our southern border, presumably to prevent  the continued migration of rapists. He's called for a database for refugees. And  he won't rule out a database for all Muslims.    This week, Donald Trump said in an effort to fight ISIS, we should "take out  family members of terrorists." Pretty extreme measures that tap into many  emotions but are they warranted or just -- stoking irrational fears for  political purposes?    Joining me now is John Mueller. He is a professor of political science at Ohio  State University, a fellow at the CATO Institute and author of "Chasing Ghosts  the Policing of Terrorism."    Professor, I thought of you yesterday. I read the Friday "New York Times" there  was a front page story with this headline "Fear in the Air, Americans look over  their shoulders." Should we not be looking over our shoulders?   
JOHN MUELLER, CO-AUTHOR, CHASING GHOSTS: Well, fear is a really important emotion if you're walking through the jungle and you approach a saber tooth  tiger. The fear is the appropriate emotion.     That's one of the reasons the human race is here. But what's really  important is to get the fear in context and not fear things that have little  probability. And what seems to be the cases of your chance being killed by a  terrorist is about 1 in 4 million per year if you're in the United States.   
SMERCONISH: You're in California right now. Earlier this week in California, 14 people were executed in a presumed act of terror.    And I don't you want to be misunderstood. You believe that we face a real  adversary. But in many respects it's an adversary not worth the chase in which  we're currently engaged.    Is that a fair way of saying it?   
MUELLER: Yes, you want to keep the chase in proportion. If -- the place to start is what is the risk? One in 4 million, in the case of active shooters, in other  words, terrorist or non-terrorist, your chance of being killed is simply like 1  in 9 million per year.    That doesn't mean that you'll demonstrate, OK, I'll forget about it. It means  that I start from that basis if I want to make the risk even lower, how much do  I want to spend on it when there are a lot of other things that kill people as  well. For example, an automobile, your chance of being killed is about 1 in  8,000 per year. Not 1 in 4 million or 1 in 9 million 
. SMERCONISH: I want to reada paragraph from your book. It's a page 133 and I put on the screen for people to follow along. You wrote, "President George W. Bush says, 'For me, the lesson  of 9/11 was simple. Don't take chances.' He's certainly right about the  simplicity of the lesson he managed to come up with. However, in applying it in  response to a tragedy that inflicted perhaps $200 billion in direct and indirect  costs, he created tragedies that were far greater, increases in domestic  counterterrorism expenditures of over $1 trillion and two wars that thus far  have cost several trillion dollars and have led to well over 100,000 deaths,  including wise as Americans as died on September 11."    So if that is -- I'll quote the title of another book of your, the overblown  approach, what is the threat approach?   
MUELLER: There is a threat out there. There is a problem out there. And you do not want overreacting as have been certainly after 9/11 with those wars and the  incredible expenditures, and the number of people that died in the process was  very excessive, even from that standpoint, even though that was an incredibly  horrible terrorist attack.    You want to go after the terrorists. You want to do it in as judicious,  effective manner. You don't want to throw huge amounts of money at it  frenetically.   
SMERCONISH: Does that mean, for example, look, the TSA, my God, the wasted time as we search, take our shoes off, go through the metal detectors, forget it. If  we lose an airplane, we lose an airplane, but on balance it will be worth it?   
MUELLER: What you need to do, you want the airplanes to be equally safe. But what you want to do is go through the expenditures and see if they can be  reduced without increasing the risk substantially, or at all if possible. What  we've done with many measures is, for example, with federal air marshals, we  sort of determined the amount of safety they give you is extremely small. And  their expenditures are extremely high. Therefore, it's not really justified  expenditure. There's other ways to spend less much money and get the same amount  of risk reduction.    You're not going to get every terrorist. You're not going to be able to stop  every automobile accident. You're not going to be able to prevent every flood  and so forth. And you're not going to have seat belts everywhere.    So, consequently, the question is basically, are you spending the money in  sensible manner that best justifies -- that reduces the amount of money you're  spending.   
SMERCONISH: Professor John Mueller, thank you so much for being here.  
MUELLER: My pleasure. Thank you.  
SMERCONISH: What do you think? Do you think that we overreact? Tweet me @smerconish and I'll share some of the best at the end of the program.    Up next, how could she do it? How could a mother drop off her 6- month-old  daughter and go commit a massacre? I'll talk to a top psychiatrist about what  could possibly have been going on inside her head.       
 SMERCONISH: The first question that I wanted to know after San Bernardino was why? And the second question -- how? How could a mother of a  6-month-old drop her off with a grandmother and then participate in a slaughter?    Tashfeen Malik reportedly pledged her allegiance to ISIS on Facebook at roughly  the time of the attack. She met her husband online and entered to this country  on a K1 visa, which permits people to come to America and marry citizens. And  then, of course, yesterday, after the landlord invited in the media, we saw  images from inside their home, including toys and a baby's crib, presumably, in  the same place where they made bombs and prepared weapons.    Joining me now is Dr. Gail Saltz. She's a noted psychiatrist, columnist and  author.    What do you think when you view that videotape and you see kids' toys and it  looks like my house in the bygone era --   
DR. GAIL SALTZ, PSYCHIATRIST: Right.  
SMERCONISH: -- and know that the weaponry was being prepared there?  
SALTZ: To most women, and men, that would be shocking. It doesn't fit with family values, but that's because you're thinking with your mindset and not the  mindset of someone who has been radicalized, who has entered essentially in a  way a cult mentality. And in many ways, she fits the profile of a female  terrorist, which is a person who is highly educated but not necessarily working,  with no criminal background, coming out of the original religion of which she  was raised.    And these things actually -- looking, a person who is looking -- a woman who is  looking for some power, for some inclusion in society, to be revered in some  way.     And if that has entered the picture before having children, then the  draw to that idea would supersede potentially motherhood.   
SMERCONISH: How about dropping off the 6-month-old with the mother- in-law, the grandmother --   
SALTZ: Right.  
SMERCONISH: -- and then committing these heinous acts.  
SALTZ: Right.  
SMERCONISH: Do you draw any significance to the 6 month age of the child? You know what I'm thinking?   
SALTZ: Yes, I do. Up to a year, a woman can suffer postpartum depression, postpartum psychosis. So whether that was involved in altering the mindset of  this woman, you have to consider that possibility. You also have to consider the  possibility that having a baby was part of being involved with this man. And  part of maintaining the marriage, the relationship. And therefore, the  radicalization of him, if that's the direction things went in.   
SMERCONISH: As a lay person, lacking your credentials, I look at this and say, why have the child? If the planning exceeds the six-month time period and it  seems like there was a lot of planning that went into this --   
SALTZ: Sure.  
SMERCONISH: -- how twisted is it to bring someone into this world and then take others out?   
SALTZ: Well, there's two things you have -- two different possibilities you have to consider. One is that the baby was simply a tool, you know?   
SMERCONISH: For cover?  
SALTZ: I'm bringing him in. I need cover. I need to bond myself to this man.   And this is what he wants. So, this is the road that I'm going. And the baby  sort of doesn't matter in that sense.    And -- or the possibility you that believe you're going to a better place.  You're doing the right thing. You're making a better world for your child.    And now, ultimately, you'll be reunited. In other words, female terrorists often  do have a belief that they are having a maternal instinct in the sense that they  are making the world better for the children, because they are committing jihad.   
SMERCONISH: Final subject, important subject. Here we are together again, talking about guns, talking about terror, talking about mental health.   
SALTZ: Yes.  
SMERCONISH: I say tongue in cheek, get news is professionals like you are studying this issue. No?   
SALTZ: Sadly, no. In 1996, it was decided in Congress that this was not a public health issue, which clearly it is. Therefore, the CDC would not be funded, would  not be allowed, as a government organization to do research on gun violence. So,  we have minimal, minimal data from which to pull. Old data, only, because it was  starting to be done at that time. And really, we need current data to figure out  who and what and when, and what is the profile. We can't stop things if we don't  have any information about it.   
SMERCONISH: So, where the country is now experiencing a mass killing defined as four people or more, at least every day, this year, you're telling me that it's  left to, you know, the pundit class like me.   
SALTZ: Correct.  
SMERCONISH: Instead of the experts like to you try and figure it out.  
SALTZ: Correct.  
SMERCONISH: Therein lies a big part of the problem.  
SALTZ: A big part of the problem. We can change that to at least have real information, science-based information on which to base our decision making.   
SMERCONISH: Respectfully, I hope it's a long time until you come back.  
SALTZ: I do, too. But sadly, I fear not.  
SMERCONISH: Thank you, Dr. Saltz. I appreciate it.   Keep those tweets coming to me @smerconish.    Up next -- is political correctness hindering our ability to win the war on  terror?   
 SMERCONISH: You know that saying if you see something, say something?   Well, how is it that the San Bernardino shooters were able to amass 12 pipe  bombs and a stockpile of weaponry without anyone noticing?    There have been reports in local media that a man working in the area noticed a  half dozen Middle Eastern men recently but was hesitant to make any report for  fear of being accused of racial profiling.    That fits in right with Donald Trump's narrative. Here's what he said last  night.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: How about the person that knew what was going on said they didn't want to report them because they think it might be  racial profiling? Did you see that?    No, did you see that?    And I'm not sure, do I believe the person? Can anybody be that dumb?    But they didn't want to report because they didn't want to be involved with  racial profiling. We have become so politically correct, that we don't know what  the hell we're doing.       
SMERCONISH: Is he right? Has political correctness become dangerous?   Joining me now is Carol Swain. She's a law professor at Vanderbilt University.  She's written a controversial article about political correctness and Muslims.    Is Donald right? Is Donald right in this particular case, Professor?   
CAROL SWAIN, VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY LAW PROFESSOR: He's absolutely correct that political correctness is preventing people from using their common sense. And  the racial profiling, the fear that many whites have, as well as, I believe,  many minorities, is causing people to be reluctant to report things that they  see in front of them. And it's not just that they don't want to be involved  directly with the police, I think that they fear the government, the backlash  from the government, if they step out and report what they see.   
SMERCONISH: You know, a decade ago, I wrote a book on this subject. And I argued that the mindset at home of giving every kid a participation trophy could  ultimately rein in our ability to win the war on terror.     Many people thought I was crazy when I advanced that theory. But it  sounds like I was correct.   
SWAIN: I believe that you were correct, and that we are following a very dangerous pattern in the U.S. and that at trajectory, when it comes to being  able to protect our citizens and to have an effective society, it's being  diminished. And a lot of it is connected to Islam and Muslims. And the fact that  they -- any criticisms of Islam is called is Islamophobia, and I think  Islamaphobia and the fact that you are going to be labeled as a racist or a  bigot causes people not to do the wrong thing. And that's dangerous for your  society.   
SMERCONISH: So, you have caused quite a bit of a stir on the Vandy campus. Let me put on the screen something you published in "The Tennessean" that caused a  lot of blowback.    What would it take us to make us admit that we are wrong about Islam, what  horrendous attack would finally convince us that Islam is not like other  religions in the United States, that it poses an absolute danger to us and our  children unless it is monitored better than it has been under the Obama  administration? What was the result on campus after those words appeared in  print?   
SWAIN: Well, the dean of students took the very unusual act, I've never seen this done before, of sending out a campus-wide e-mail encouraging the students  to get counseling or engage in expressive action and/or dialogue. And so, the  students organized and denounced me for my bigotry and hatred. It was very -- it  was stunning to me the reaction because I have never seen a university respond  the way they did over an opinion piece in a local newspaper. I believe that  everything that's happened since January 15th when the article was first run  online has vindicated my position and that more and more Americans are waking up  and seeing that unless we begin to deal with the threat that is in our land,  that the future is going to be grim for us. I think we are going to have more  terrorist attacks, because we are not doing anything to prevent it.   
SMERCONISH: I know that the vice chancellor said we are in no way condoning or supporting the views stated in your editorial and understand they are deeply  offensive to many members of our community, Muslim and non-Muslim alike.    Professor, there have been a number of events in the media recently. I think of  a controversy over Woodrow Wilson at Princeton University that draw on some of  the same themes of political correctness. Is this all causally connected? In  other words, the reaction on campus to different incidents at a time when this  terror threat continues to be pervasive.    What's the big picture?   
SWAIN: Well, first of all, that's viewpoint discrimination that if a liberal professor writes an article that's controversial, students may be offended, the  community may be offended. The university immediately protects their academic  freedom. So, I was treated very differently.    I think that what's taken place on the college campuses is dangerous in that we  are coddling students in such a way that they are not going to be able to  function in the real world, that this college environment, where they have safe  spaces. We don't have safe spaces in the world. And I believe that  administrators are failing students. That we, the adults, ought to be teaching  the students to respect the Constitution, to respect the First Amendment, to  respect religious freedom and freedom of association. We're not doing that.  We're letting the young people that have no experience run the organization. And  that's a serious mistake.    We should not be changing the names of buildings and we should not be dealing  with the students in the way we are. We need to help them become adults.   
SMERCONSH: Well, I think you can have it both ways. I am for civility and I'm also for fair and open exchange of ideas on controversial subjects. Otherwise, I  don't think we get anywhere.    Thank you, Professor Swain.   
SWAIN: You are right.  
SMERCONISH: I appreciate you being here.  
SWAIN: Thank you.  
SMERCONISH: Up next, my favorite political cartoon of the week and your best tweets @Smerconish. Oh, boy. Look at this one.   
 SMERCONISH: Hey, check that out, nobody better summed up the frustrations of this week's events than political cartoonist, Mike Luckovich of  "The Atlanta Journal Constitution".    And now, a couple of your tweets from this past hour. Let me again with Mark who  says, "@smerconish, 'Chasing Ghosts' author, John Muller, has too many facts and  common sense. Politicians are not interested in facts."    Look, fear sells and I think his message is, keep it all in perspective. There's  a real threat, but keep it in perspective.    Christopher says, "I think we lost our connection, is the new no comment along  with the mysterious A.C. plug malfunction." I don't know what went wrong at the  end of my conversations with Karl Rove and Rand Paul, but I appreciated having  each of them on the program.    I think this is my favorite tweet of the week though, and it comes from Lucy.  Lucy Ferr who says, "@smerconish, you worry too much about Trump, stop. The  higher his ratings get, the stupider he gets. Soon, Americans will wake up."    Lucy, it's the reverse that concerns me, the stupider he gets, the higher his  ratings. That, I think, poses a real threat for the country.    Keep tweeting me @smerconish. Thanks for watching and I'll see you next week.   
