    
HIGHLIGHT: First trial in the death of Freddie Gray is set to start in Baltimore. A big climate change meeting in Paris.         
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ACNHOR: What's the enforcement?  
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR EUROPEAN CORRESPONDENT: Well that's  
CUOMO: Skepticism is, OK, you get the commitment but what is the enforcement mechanism, especially when you get into the big shots, China, India. India  especially saying, "We're having our industrial revolution right now. We need  fossil fuels." What's the enforcement?   
BITTERMANN: Well that's the problem. And in the next two weeks, I mean, after the leaders leave here on Tuesday, I mean, that's the big show. But after that,  then all officials, the Sherpasas they call it, they're going to work  over, as agreement that come up with some kind of mechanism.    Basically, they can't do much more the name and shame. You know they have to  say, "You know, look here is somebody that filling an agreement. This as you  promised, you weren't going to, you know, allow more than a certain amount of,  you know, this gas emissions and you are.    So that's really about the only important mechanism that they have. There's no  worldwide body to enforcement.   
CUOMO: Now, when you were helping me getthis morning. France has never put out this kind of security plan like they have now, some 120,000 police  and military forces in effect. What is the mood now in terms of how much  advantage they've gained over the risk of radical jihadis here?   
BITTERMANN: Well I think, you know, I think they feel that it's secure. The defense minister just did an interview with Christiane Amanpour. And he said,  "You know, we've got security situation nailed." I hope he's right.    In any case I have never seen it quite like this. I just came through Place de  la Concorde, you know what a busy place that is, totally seal-off, not a  thing moving other than pedestrian and tourist who are taking pictures of each  other and now totally empty glass. The government actually went so far as to  recommend to people not to work today...   
CUOMO: Right.  
BITTERMANN: ... which -- you don't have to say that twice. I think a lot of people did stay at home. The streets are pretty empty. They rounded up 24  environmental activists who they thought might be a little bit too radical. They  put them under house arrest. It's unbelievable the kind of powers they've used  here to restrain things.   
CUOMO: And yet, let's bring in John Sutter for this conversation, because it hasn't stopped everything.    In Place de la Republique, the place has become the memorial to the victims of  the attacks. There were protests that wind up turning vial it. So we have the  writer of the two degrees project, John Sutter, who is with us. He is the CNN  Digital Opinion Columnist.    So, when you look at the situation John, how does it setup in terms of the goals  but also in terms of what we're seeing with the protests?   
JOHN SUTTER, CNN DIGITAL OPINION COLUMNIST: Yeah. I think a lot of people are disappointed that the protests and clashes with police are disrupting from  what's, you know, happening here at COP21.    The demonstrators I've talked to are essentially, you know, they were trying to  come out and show that they're not afraid, even given us security situation that  they saw climate change as an emergency before the terror attacks. They've see  it that way now. They'll see it that way, you know, and in future generations.  And then, basically demanding like an end to fossil fuels.    Those demonstrations start out really, actually pretty somber in the morning.  There were a bunch of shoes laid out on Place de la Republique because the  marches were banned, that the people were saying that there shoes were marching  for them. I'm going to be an incredibly moving site. But it did sort of devolved  overtime in the protest did get heated. Like I said I think a lot of the climate  activists were disappointed that happened and actually had dispersed at that  point. There were a lot of groups that were very much wanting to sort of get  along with the police and obey that ban on public demonstrations.   
CUOMO: And it's not unusual to see some more leftist elements, anarchy elements come in and overtake what is a purposeful demonstration by those focused on the  climate in this case.    You talked to somebody and have some sound from someone who wanted to speak to  that, right?   
SUTTER: Yes. I know I think that, you know, what's happening here is we've seen a number of heads of state giving speeches and sort of talking. I think there  are a lot of activists who are, you know, sort of sick of all of the talk that  goes around this. And like I said, they're looking for a very rapid advance out  of the fossil fuel era.    Like if we're going to meet the 2 degrees Celsius goal, which is essentially,  you know, what these talks are about, limiting warming below that amount since  the industrial revolution. We're going to have to move very, very quickly off of  fossil fuels.    And, so, you know, I heard Ban Ki-moon really hitting that point home today and  saying, "You know, we have to do this faster than we have been."    So we'll see if this talk, you know, turns into action. But that's what people  here were watching this closely. They are very nervously hoping that they do.    And I actually caught up with a 15-year-old here the other day who is a climate  activist. He's been doing this since she was six years old. And he was telling  me that, you know, talk is cheap and that he's looking for more from President  Obama. Take a listen to this.       
XIUHTEZCATI TONATIUH, CLIMATE ACTIVIST, "KID WARRIOR": We're calling out our government. We're calling out the people that are supposedly representing us,  representing the people, representing our voices, for their lack of action, the  Obama administration, for their lack of action. They have failed to adequately  protect the climate for our generation in those who follow. They have immensely  failed at that.       
 SUTTER: So, he was telling me that basically he is from the generation that has the most at stake in climate change. And I think that was  one of the most moving things about the demonstrations I saw yesterday in France  too, all these shoes that were laid out on the Place de la Republique.    They had messages. And many said, "We're doing this for our children. We have to  think about this now. Terrorist, you know, a very important subject and one we  need to address as well. The climate change is the long-term disaster that is  going to play out over the course and generations. And this really is the worlds  best time to focus on this issue in all world leaders is here and to -- come up  with some sort of deal that will actually cut emissions and get off of fossil  fuels.   
CUOMO: And John, as you know very well and as Jim Bitterman laid out, you do have a better chance than usual getting some type of consensus, something down  that is a plan or agreement among all these parties because you do have the  commitments in advance. But let see how it plays out.    John Sutter, thank you very much. I look forward to talking to you about what  happens here at COP21. And for all of you, please be sure to catch all John's  reporting from COP21 at cnn.com/2degrees.    Mich, let me bring it back to you. And as we said earlier Christiane Amanpour  scored a big interview for us on new day with Bill Gates. A big part of the  solution to climate change they believe here at the COP21 is public/private  partnerships.    Bill Gates has a big announcement with the president this morning. We're getting  ready for his address in a few minutes that we'll going to take live here on the  show. It will be a big interview.   
MICHAELA PEREIRA, CNN ANCHOR: All right. Lots of things to get to this morning, thank you so much we'll be back with you in a moment.    The first of six Baltimore Police Officers charged in the Freddie Gray case  going to trial later this morning. Could those trials trigger more violence than  the -- that the rioting we saw after Gray's death? It is a real fear in a city  already dealing with it's higher murder -- highest murder rate in years.    We have more on that coming up, next.       
PEREIRA: We are hours away from the start of the first trial for the Baltimore police officers involved in the death of Freddie Gray. Jury selection set to  begin in Officer William Porter's trial. He is eventually expected to take the  stand in his own defense. With us this morning to discuss this and many other  things, Charles Blow, he is CNN political commentator and Op-Ed columnist for  The New York Times, all right.    So we do know the first trial, today, Freddie Gray, it has been an emotional  time in Baltimore and around the nation. Here's what we know about Officer  Porter. I think we can pull up a sort of a card of the information we have on  him, 26 years old, a native of Baltimore. He's been a member of the Baltimore  Police Department since 2012. He's facing charges of manslaughter, second degree  assault, misconduct in office, reckless endangerment. What do you expecting to  see? Because we know there are six officers in total that will be trialed  ...    CHARLES BLOW, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR AND OP-ED COLUMNIST FOR THE NEW YORK 
TIMES: Right.  
PEREIRA: ... what do you expecting to see happen in Baltimore in terms of the reaction of the community?   
BLOW: Well, it may be muted just because these will not be public trials, right? So won't have the same access, you have cameras in my understanding . You will  not have cameras in the police, I mean, in the courtroom. And that changes the  dynamic. We don't get a chance to follow along and the public has a chance to  weigh in on every detail as it comes out with the quality of the prosecution in  the defense. I think that changes things a bit. You also already have a bit of a  settlement with family in that city. And the fact that they are on trial at all  changes the dynamic a bit. So, I think you could have a much more muted response  than people might expect.   
PEREIRA: We know that there were some conversations in some corners saying are these guys, these officers going to get a fair trial? In fact one of the lawyers  angered the judge in seeking a change of venue, saying that he was citing a  recent study that found Baltimore residents are more likely than those in the  rest of Maryland to have a negative view of the police. Do you feel in your  heart these officers can get a fair trial?   
BLOW: Well, that goes both ways. The New York Times we have this week Op-Ed by a public defender who's also running to be a circuit judge in Baltimore that  basically said that these officers are getting treatment that is not like any  other defendants, right?    Everything from the way that they were arrested, allowed to turn themselves in,  allowed to do it on a Friday so that they can post a post bail in a way that  other defendants would not be able to, allowed to have a lower bail than other  people, even people who were protesting, broke, you know, window in a police  car. You have a higher bail set than for the killing of a person.    You know, all a long that track he was citing ways in which the officers were  getting a better shake.   
PEREIRA: Interesting.  
BLOW: ...than send the...  
PEREIRA: And suppose no matter which way you look at it you can find ways.  
BLOW: Right. There are two sides to that.  
PEREIRA: There are two sides to every story. We know -- it's interesting here because we know the judge in this case is African- American.   
BLOW: Right.  
PEREIRA: We also know that he in the past has investigated police misconduct cases across the nation for the Federal Government. In this case as well, three  of the six officers are African-American. In fact, the officer that is going to  trial today, Officer Porter, has said, "Isn't it really interesting odd." He  said that if he had made different choices in his own life he, too, could have  been Freddie Gray and then also makes the point that Freddie Gray could have  also been him. Do you think that will resonate with the jurors?   
BLOW: I mean it could. I mean the thing that we have to take out of this equation and I think that we keep overlaying on to all of the cases that people  who are killed by police officers is making it into a situation of black people  against white officers, right? I don't think that's exactly the way it works. I  think it is really about the subjects which is the black people and police in  general. And those police can be of any race. I think there's a police culture  that creates an environment of antagonism with a particular community in those  that will happen...   
PEREIRA: Some people are saying what more do people want? The judge is black, the police officers are black.   
BLOW: Right.  
PEREIRA: And don't understand the concern about the institution. BLOW: Right. There's an institutional prejudice and a heritage issue in terms of these  structures and how they are used and deployed.     And so I think that once we understand that that -- that the  institution becomes the issue and not necessarily the race of the officer. But  it is the race of the person who is being interacted with because those people  who are being killed who are unarmed are disproportionately black people.   
PEREIRA: I want to pivot to Chicago a little bit.  
BLOW: Right.  
PEREIRA: Because, you know, that all of this is interconnected because we've seen the protests going on in Chicago. I know you were there covering them and  getting a sense of what the feeling is on the ground there. How do you think  what's going on in Baltimore is going to have an effect on Chicago and vice  versa?    For example, we know in Baltimore the jury is not going to be sequestered. So  they are going to be, you know, hearing and seeing and reading the social media  posts and watching the headlines and seeing the coverage of what's going on in  another city.   
BLOW: So I don't know if it had, you know, that direct in impact. I do look at them as interconnected in this way which is that, you know, they are discreet in  that Baltimore has a culture. Chicago has a culture, very specific culture. I  mean the NAACP issue a statement and is going to have a press conference about  this, citing a 2008 study in Chicago that said between 2002-2004 there were  10,000 civilian complaints but only 19 of those resulted in any sort of  significant action. In over 30 years only one police officer, this police  officer, has been charged with murder in the case of a police shooting.    That is a very specific Chicago thing. But in general, it is a national thing  because every time that the Federal Government looks into one of these local  municipalities, they find something that is kind of unpleasant about  disparities.   
PEREIRA: Yeah.  
BLOW: Right.  
PEREIRA: Charles, you've written a thoughtful Op-Ed in New York Times. I want to point people to that. Thank you so much for joining us. We need to get back to  Paris to Chris. We know the president is set to speak soon.   
CUOMO: We are waiting for him. We'll take a quick break. We do expect the president to come back on the other side of it. And this is a big deal.    For all the security concerns here, you cannot mitigate the situation in France  right now with respect to the battle against terrorism, especially bringing all  these heads of state. This is a big speech for President Obama. Many believe  that helping the climate will cripple the U.S. Economy. What's he going to say?  How does he make it sellable to the world leaders to get a consensus and back  home in the U.S.? Stay with us.       
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES AMERICA: Fellow leaders, we have come to Paris to show our resolve. We offer our condolences to the people of France for  the barbaric attacks on this beautiful city. We stand united in solidarity, not  only to deliver justice to the terrorist network responsible for those attacks  but to protect our people and uphold the enduring values that keep us strong and  keep us free. And we salute the people of Paris for insisting this crucial  conference go on. An act of defiance that proves nothing will deter us from  building the future we want for our children. What greater rejection of those  who would tear down our world than Marshalling our best efforts to save it.    Nearly 200 nations have assembled here this week, a declaration that for all the  challenges we face, the growing threat of climate change could define the  contours of this century more dramatically than any other. And what should give  us hope that this is a turning point, that this is the moment we finally  determined we would save our planet is fact that our nations share a sense of  urgency about this challenge and a growing realization that it is within our  power to do something about it. Our understanding of the ways human beings  disrupt the climate advances by the day. 14 of the 15 warmest years on record  have occurred since the year 2000.    And 2015 is on pace to be the warmest year of all. No nation, large or small,  wealthy or poor, is immune to what this means. This summer I saw the effects of  climate change firsthand in our northern most state, Alaska, where the sea is  already swallowing villages and eroding shorelines.     Where permafrost thaws and the tundra burns, where glaciers are  melting at a pace unprecedented in modern times. And it was a preview of one  possible future, a glimpse of our children's fate if the climate keeps changing  faster than our efforts to address it -- submerged countries, abandoned cities,  fields that no longer grow. Political disruptions that trigger new conflict, and  even more floods of desperate peoples seeking the sanctuary of nations not their  own.    That future is not one of strong economies, nor is it one where fragile states  can find their footing. That future is one that we have the power to change,  right here, right now. But only if we rise to this moment, as one of America's  governors has said, "We are the first generation to feel the impact of climate  change, and the last generation that can do something about it."    I've come here personally, as the leader of the world's largest economy and the  second-largest emitter, to say that the United States of America not only  recognizes our role in creating this problem, we embrace our responsibility to  do something about it. Over the last seven years, we've made ambitious  investments in clean energy, and ambitious reductions in our carbon emissions.  We've multiplied wind power three-fold and solar power more than twenty- fold,  helping create parts of America where these clean power sources are finally  cheaper than dirtier, conventional power.    We've invested in energy efficiency in every way imaginable. We've said no to  infrastructure that would pull high-carbon fossil fuels from the ground, and  we've said yes to the first-ever set of national standards limiting the amount  of carbon pollution our power plants can release into the sky.    The advances we've made have helped drive our economic output to all- time  highs, and drive our carbon pollution to its lowest levels in nearly two  decades.    But the good news is this is not an American trend alone. Last year, the global  economy grew while global carbon emissions from burning fossil fuels stayed  flat. And what this means can't be overstated. We have broken the old arguments  for inaction. We have proved that strong economic growth and a safer environment  no longer have to conflict with one another; they can work in concert with one  another, and that should give us hope.    One of the enemies that we'll be fighting at this conference is cynicism, the  notion we can't do anything about climate change. Our progress should give us  hope during these two weeks -- hope that is rooted in collective action.    Earlier this month in Dubai, after years of delay, the world agreed to work  together to cut the super-pollutants known as HFCs. That's progress. Already,  prior to Paris, more than 180 countries representing nearly 95 percent of global  emissions have put forward their own climate targets. That is progress.    For our part, America is on track to reach the emissions targets that I set six  years ago in Copenhagen. We will reduce our carbon emissions in the range of 17  percent below 2005 levels by 2020. And that's why, last year, I set a new  target. America will reduce our emissions 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005  levels within 10 years from now.    So our task here in Paris is to turn these achievements into an enduring  framework for human progress.     Not a stopgap solution, but a long-term strategy that gives the world  confidence in a low-carbon future.    Here, in Paris, let's secure an agreement that builds in ambition, where  progress paves the way for regularly updated targets. Targets that are not set  for each of us but by each of us, taking into account the differences that each  nation is facing.       
COUMO: All right. And there you have what's going to be the main message from President Obama of the United States, that progress can be made. But then you  heard that last phrase there which is the critical part of finding consensus,  finding a balance with the individual needs of each of the nations.    That's the trick here at COP21, how do you create progress across the board? How  do you find each country's middle ground of economic progress and responsibility  for the environment?    Alisyn, I just want to give you some of the headlines, for those are tuning in  right now. President Obama calling COP21 an act of defiance because of the  attacks that just happened here a couple of weeks ago in and around paris, that  having this conference shows that the people of goodwill will not be deterred in  their desire to make the world a better place. And obviously as headline as the  world is hot, that this 2 degree celsius increase in temperature is a critical  standard, since 1980 you've had the world, most scientists will tell you, heat  up and maybe by as much as 0.85 of a degree. So you're getting close to 2  degrees already.    But the president's message is that change in is in reach. He quoted a U.S.  governor saying this generation is the first to feel the effects of global  warming and the last generation who can do something about it. He also said that  the United States is going to set a new goal for emissions reductions because  we're ahead of schedule. So those are big themes but the big question is,  Alisyn, how do they get consensus and does everything stay safe here for the  duration of the summit?   
CAMEROTA: Absolutely. You've given us a lot of material to work with, Chris, so will be back with you shortly because we do want to get analysis from our CNN  political commentator and political anchor of Time Warner Cable News, Errol  Louis, also CNN political analyst and political campaign correspondent for the  New York Times, Maggie Haberman.    Great to see you guys, hope you had a great Holliday.    ERROL LOUIS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR AND POLITICAL ANCHOR OF TIME WARNER CABLE 
NEWS: Good morning. Good morning.  
CAMEROTA: So everything, let's just -- everything is happening in Paris, against the presidential race, back here at home. The Republicans don't agree,  necessarily with President Obama that climate change is as big of a threat and  that it is human cause. So how much hate for Republicans over campaign to make  of whatPresident Obama is saying in Paris.   
LOUIS: Well, that there are the candidates who will going to just sort of dismiss the facts out of hand and say that, "I don't accept the premise of the  entire summit." And so, they'll write themselves out of the conversation.    Among the others though, that there are some important questions like the  Keystone XL pipeline that the Republicans have all sort of said, "I promise to  sort of reawaken that conversation. I promise to do what I can to get fossil  fuel out of the ground and into the economy. This is going to be sort of an  important question for both Democrats and the Republicans to sort of come up  with.    If it becomes a major campaign issue, it will be part of not just the  president's legacy but also a part of the next election.   
CAMEROTA: Does this event make it higher up on the totem poll of campaign issues?    MAGGIE HABERMAN, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST AND POLITICAL CAMPAIGN CORRESPONDENT FOR 
THE NEW YORK TIMES: I think there's no question although I don't think at least in the short-term for the Republican primary are going to see a trump terrorism  as Chris just said. That's really what you're seeing undermines of a lot of  people when it comes to Paris right now.    But I think Errol is right, that I think, if they're -- an accord is  reached, it is going to have sweeping implications for what comes next in terms  of the person who replaces President Obama. You were going to see a lot more  from Republicans. You actually have heard the Democrats talking about climate  change quite a bit, most notably, Bernie Sanders.    I think this is going to rise, especially in a general election for right now as  the Republican primary is playing out, I think it will remain a secondary issue.   
CAMEROTA: Let's talk about what happened over the weekend. All of the -- many of the candidates were on the Sunday shows. And Donald trump once again repeated  his seemingly specious claim that there were thousands of extremists celebrating  in New Jersey as the twin towers were falling. Here's what he said on "Meet the  Press."   
DONALD TRUMP,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I've had hundreds of people call in and tweet in, on Twitter, saying that they saw it and I was 100 percent right.  Now, the Washington Post also wrote about tailgate parties. We're looking for  other articles and we're looking for other clips.    And I wouldn't be surprised if we found them, Chuck. But for some reason they're  not that easy to come by. I saw it. So many people saw it, Chuck, and so why  would I take it back? I'm not going to take it back.   
CAMEROTA: Maggie, for some reason, the photographic evidence of this is not that easy to come by.   
HABERMAN: For some reason these clips claiming these events that other people can't seem to remember aren't that easy to come by. The way that he has been  citing my colleague Serge Kovaleski story from when Serge was at the Washington  Post, September 18th, 2001, is not accurate.   
