    
HIGHLIGHT: Breaking news out of San Bernardino, federal officials telling CNN they found a possible link between the shooters and ISIS, and the female shooter  apparently posted to Facebook using a different name, while the shooting was  under way, pledging their allegiance to ISIS leader, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, but  officials say it appears the attack was inspired by ISIS, but not necessarily  ISIS-directed or ordered. As investigators continue to search for more answers  behind the motive of this attack and this tragedy in California, the San  Bernardino community is trying to mourn the victims of this massacre, and 14  people were killed in the attack, 21 injured, and all of them between the ages  of 26 and 60 years old. Investigators found a connection to ISIS in the San  Bernardino shooting and U.S. officials say the female attacker pledged  allegiance to the ISIS leader, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, on Facebook as the attack  was under way, and this comes as attorneys for the shooters' family tells CNN  they saw no warning signs, and those attorneys say the facts as they know them,  they just don't add up, and they say Syed Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik,  showed no indication they were stockpiling an arsenal of weapons, ammunition or  pipe bombs or that they were planning this horrific attack.     
 ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.  
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. I'm John Berman.  
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. I'm Kate Bolduan. Thanks for joining us. We are following breaking news out of the massacre in San Bernardino,  California.    Investigates have found a connection to ISIS. This is the first link we have  heard of between the terror group and the shooting rampage that killed 14 people  and wounded 21 others.   
BERMAN: CNN's Chief national security correspondent, Jim Sciutto, broke the story. He joins us now with details.    Jim, what have you learned?   
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: John, multiple U.S. officials telling me and my colleague, Pamela Brown, as the San Bernardino was  under way, the wife of the shooter, Tashfeen Malik, she posted to Facebook a  pledge of allegiance to the ISIS leader Abu Bakr al Baghdadi. She made a posting  on social media declaring her allegiance. This leading investigators down the  path this was an ISIS-inspired attack. They're saying inspiration at this point.  They do not have evidence of direction, but inspiration.    We were told by one U.S. official this is looking more and more like  self-radicalization. Other officials tell us they have not ruled out others may  have influenced Farook and his wife along the way. That often happens with these  cases. People get in touch with other ISIS sympathizers via social media forums,  jihadi websites, et cetera.    Also this, because we've had a lot of discussion about this, Kate and John, as  you know, about what contributed in terms of extremism as well as the  possibility of workplace grievances. To be clear, investigators are looking at  whether disputes or offense taken at the shooter's religion at the workplace may  have contributed to this as well.    What is key here is the news of establishing this ISIS connection. I'll tell  you, for weeks, for months, this is exactly the scenario that U.S. intelligence  officials, U.S. counterterrorist officials, have told me and my colleagues that  they're concerned about, ISIS would inspire someone on U.S. soil to do  something, sadly, to what we say on the streets of Paris. Not the scale of that  but similar, multiple shooters, multiple fatalities, multiple weapons, now a  direct connection to ISIS here.       
BERMAN: Just to be clear, while the shooting was under way, she posted something to Facebook?   
SCIUTTO: That's right. There is precedence of that. ISIS will ask of followers to do that, make a posting on Facebook or Twitter while an attack is under way  or just before, to post the pledge of allegiance to the group of the leader. We  have seen that in previous attacks overseas. That's what investigators fear  they've seen take place here.   
BOLDUAN: A major development coming from your sources.   Jim, thanks so much. Jim Sciutto for us.    There's a lot to talk through now with this huge development and turn in this  investigation. Let's bring in CNN counterterrorism analyst, Phil Mudd; CNN law  enforcement, Harry Houck; as well as CNN terrorism analyst, Paul Cruickshank.    Phil, first to you.    As Jim said, this is something officials here and abroad -- especially here,  have feared for a very long time would happen, an ISIS-inspired attack. Now we  have 14 people killed in what looks to be a possibly ISIS-inspired attack.   
PHIL MUDD, CNN COUNTERTERRORISM ANALYST: That's right. This story is changing quickly. We transitioned this morning from speculation into what might have been  the motivation for this attack. You have to have some sort of political  motivation to consider an attack of terrorism. We didn't have that until this  story started breaking, not only the direct connection for a pledge of support  for al Baghdadi. The timing is significant, if you're posting that during an  event, you're indicating that was at least some of your motivation for  conducting the event. Early on you're saying how can that be linked to ISIS?  Somehow, some way, clearly it does. This changes the game for me.   
BERMAN: Harry, just to go to the investigation angle, again, this was perhaps gleaned from looking at the cell phones that were crushed. We know a hard drive  was missing. What do investigators do now to continue to look at these threads?  They're obviously yielding stunning information.   
HARRY HOUCK, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Without a doubt. I'm sure the FBI has a computer team that is far above any on this earth. They can go through this  hard drive and be able to pick out a little information. A lot of people think  when you wipe a hard drive that all the information is gone. There is a file  that stays there no matter how much deleting you do. The problem is how well  destroyed was the hard drive. Are they able to retrieve the information on the  hard drive? It looks like they probably have been able to do it. There's still  information on there. It's a long task. You really need to be an expert to do  this. Same thing with cell phones. The cell phone information, you can get a lot  of that information from the phone company. If you don't get the text -- let's  say everything is encrypted and you can't get the information. We have the  numbers they called or maybe numbers that called them. These are very big leads  and every one will be tracked down.   
 BOLDUAN: As it all starts, and it's really just the beginning of something maybe adding up, Paul. You have this information of looking like  self-radicalization, an is-inspired attack on U.S. soil. This arsenal they  amassed over some pert of time. That's why it's surprising to so many people,  and I want to get your take from your point of expertise, that the family, the  family's attorney, they say that there were no red flags. There were no warning  signs. They weren't on anyone's radar, even those closest to them. No one saw  anything coming.   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: We hear that time and time again in these cases. Often it's a family to find out the people self-radicalizing hid it  from their families. They distance themselves from their family. Perhaps there  was some instigation from is, Syria and Iraq in this attack? We've seen it  earlier, Garland, Texas, in May of this year, that a British ISIS operative who  has since been killed in a drone strike was encouraging over social media one of  the attackers to launch some kind of attack in the United States. ISIS is trying  to instigate these attacks in any way it can, through social media. One of their  top leaders issued a fatwa, losing there's -- ISIS have also, as Jim was saying,  they're also drilling into their followers, the idea you've got to claim it in  some way for the so-called caliphate. There have been a number of instances  where that has taken place, especially in Garland, Texas, shooting where they  posted before opening up fire there. A case in Demark, posted a Facebook just a  few minutes before. A couple of other examples as well. So this would allow ISIS  to take ownership.   
BOLDUAN: Doesn't it seem like some insult to injury that they would take time during this attack --       
BERMAN: It could be between the shooting and while they were shot.      
BERMAN: So, Phil, I want to follow up this right now just to review our news here. Jim Sciutto, our chief national security correspondent, reporting that the  woman involved in this shooting made some post on Facebook as the shooting was  underway, pledging allegiance to ISIS leader, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi. We know  they're investigating a possible link between the shooters and a terror suspect  they had been before. Do you get from the shooting to the terror suspects? What  are you doing now?   
MUDD: You have to look at multiple layers of the investigation. Obviously, you're looking at old information federal officials might have looked at before  between these individuals and other radicalized individuals in the United  States. If those are closed investigations, I would want to reopen them. You've  got to look at these conversations with the family, what they knew when. Those  extend out to friends, to colleagues. Your first question is whether there was a  conspiracy around this. Not necessarily just people providing weapons but people  who were part of the conspiracy because they knew something was a foot. Second  thing, did someone provide money? Did someone provide them weapons knowing  something was happening? Did they communicate with someone a year ago when this  radicalization process started? It's almost a ripple effect for the  investigation. Finally, John, the question I would be having now, in the wake of  the Paris plot, who were people in Syria who have transitioned over the past  month or year in ISIS who have said we're not going to passively encourage  people to strike Europe and the United States. We are going to train them and  send them out. Because I'd be worried after Paris that ISIS is going to try to  send people to New York or California.   
 BOLDUAN: There have big questions how someone without any training could pull off these pipe bombs, amass the weapons. There's so many questions  just now starting to get some of these details, a more horrific picture than it  began as.    Phil, great to see you. Thank you.    Paul, thank you.    Harry, thank you so much.    Coming up, no warning signs, no red flags. The family members of these killers  describe them as quiet and shy. New details on the shooters and the breaking  news. We continue to cover this breaking news on this new-found ISIS connection  ahead.   
BERMAN: Plus, the smell of gunpowder was still in air. One of the first officers to arrive at the mass shooting described a surreal scene he called unspeakable.  We'll hear from him.    Also, we're learning more about the victims. 14 lives cut short by this horror.  There were mothers, a new father planning a trip to Disneyland, a young woman  with a contagious smile. We'll have their stories straight ahead.   
 BERMAN: Breaking news out of San Bernardino. Federal officials telling CNN they found a possible link between the shooters and ISIS. The female  shooter apparently posted to Facebook using a different name, while the shooting  was under way, pledging their allegiance to ISIS leader, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi.   
BOLDUAN: Officials say it appears the attack was inspired by ISIS, but not necessarily ISIS-directed or ordered. All of this, though, is important. A very  big development in this.    Let's bring back in Paul Cruickshank and continue this. Paul, what is the  importance in that distinction, though, for our viewers? ISIS-inspired versus  ISIS-directed? Regardless, 14 people died.   
CRUICKSHANK: The distinction has become a little muddied over time as ISIS is in touch with them from Syria and Iraq, the so-called caliphate, to the United  States. There's a little muddying of the waters about this distinction which  used to exist more between a directed terrorist talk and an inspired terrorist  attack. Inspired terrorist attack means they haven't gone overseas to Syria or  Iraq, or places like Libya to meet with senior ISIS figures who have given them  training. And I think the nature of this attack, guns and pretty primitive bombs  is consistent with more ISIS-inspired attacks. People who haven't got that  training overseas because when they do, we see things like Paris where you have  more than 150 people killed.   
BERMAN: This is not just, inspired. As Kate said, ISIS wants these to spring up organically all over the world. They have called for just such thing.   
CRUICKSHANK: They have called for just such thing. They say it's the religious duty of their followers. They have an all-out campaign, every hour of every day  they promote the idea that western followers should launch attacks. When they  do, they promote them big time and the issues of their English and French and  other language magazines. There will be videotapes ISIS will put out. It's a big  deal the ISIS can take claim of an attack against the United States. It was al  Qaeda that could boast about that. Now ISIS will boast about this. Here's the  context. This year, there have been a surge in the number of ISIS-inspired cases  of terrorism in the United States. More than 50 arrests we've seen linked to  these ISIS-inspired cases. A quarter of those have seen some kind of attack,  plans or aspirations to launch attacks. Over 900 investigations of people  believed inspired by ISIS across the U.S. There's more energy in the system.  This declaration by the caliphate, by ISIS has energized these followers and  they're increasingly angered by the U.S. strikes. The reality is the fact that  ISIS holds territory in Syria, Iraq and also Libya, gives it so much more  legitimacy. Really empowers it in the eyes of its supporters. And I think there  needs to be an urgent discussion, especially after that attack, but after Paris,  from all the various international powers about removing this territorial  control that ISIS have in Syria, Iraq and Libya. And just a few hundred extra  forces, frankly, is not going to change the dynamic quickly enough. I think we  can see these horrible days like in Paris or California unless something is done  urgently.   
BERMAN: Sobering thought.  
BOLDUAN: A sobering thought. And this tragedy in California has very quickly now become part of the broader conversation that has been going on for quite some  time about how to take on ISIS.    Paul, stick around. We have more to discuss with you.    Want to get to this, new this morning. As investigators continue to search for  more answers behind the motive of this attack and this tragedy in California,  the San Bernardino community is trying to -- trying to mourn the victims of this  massacre. 14 people were killed in the attack, 21 injured. All of them between  the ages of 26 and 60 years old.   
 BERMAN: This is what family members are now saying about their loved ones.       
RYAN REYES, DANIEL KAUFMAN'S BOYFRIEND: I know it's very cliche and I know I've said this several times that, you know, people say, oh, somebody's smile could  light up a room. This is actually true of Daniel. It's even been brought to my  attention that I didn't even realize the impact that he had on some people's  lives.   
ARLEN VERDEHYOU, BENNATTA'S HUSBAND: Lovely wife, beautiful mother. Everything she touched, bloomed. Doing what she did for the county, not one person can say  anything negative about her.       
BERMAN: I want to bring in CNN's chief medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta.   Sanjay, you've been out there hearing to family members. What are you learning  about the 14 victims?   
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: So many of the families want to talk, first of all. It's one of those things where I think they just want to  talk. Maybe it's cathartic, share their stories, honor their loved ones. 14  people as you just mentioned.    Some of the stories, let me just tell you, Robert Adams, 40 years old, a real  family man. He married his teenage sweetheart. And a daughter named Savannah. He  always wanted to be a dad. Savannah is 20 months old.    Michael Wetzel is 37 years old. Six children, Michael Wetzel has. His wife  described him as the most amazing person she knew. Best friends, she described  him.    Yvette Velasco, 27 years old, sparkly eyes and a contagious smile, full of life.  Loved by everyone that met her. Just amazing stories.    Again, you hear from the families. This is one of the communities where people  just know each other. We know in the hospital where the E.R. staff was taking  care of people, there were people who came in they knew as well. It's one of  those types of communities. We're just trying to find out and hear more about  these families' loved ones. They want to talk, they want to share.   
BOLDUAN: There are still 21 people who were injured. Many still in the hospital. What can you tell us? Some of them suffering from horrific gunshot wounds. 
GUPTA: Yeah, no question. We know there's been a significant improvement and some patients remember charged. Some patients' conditions were upgraded from  critical to fair or stable. There's a little progress. Good news there.    There's a picture I wanted to point out to you of what the emergency room at  Arrowhead Medical Center in moments before patients arrived. How they got ready,  there were people who weren't on call, scheduled to work, who just came in. By  the time patients started to arrive within that emergency room, there were four  to five doctors who were there waiting. It gives you an idea of the  extraordinary preparation. They do training and drills for things like this, but  just the rush of personnel who came in to help. I think it made a big  difference. At that hospital, Arrowhead, you had one patient who is now charged,  five patients who still remain. When we talked to the chief of surgery  yesterday, he said they were all stable. As you point out, these can be horrific  injuries as a result of the types of weapons that were used. Despite that and I  think in part because of very quick care, they're having some good results.   
BOLDUAN: An amazing preparation, amazing training by those at the hospital.   Sanjay, thanks so much.   
GUPTA: Thank you.  
BERMAN: Our minds obviously with those victims and their families.  
BOLDUAN: Absolutely.  
BERMAN: Meanwhile, there is breaking news on the shootings. A pledge of allegiance to ISIS while the attack was under way. Our continuing coverage right  after this.     Breaking news. CNN learned investigators found a connection to ISIS  in the San Bernardino shooting. U.S. officials say the female attacker pledged  allegiance to the ISIS leader, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, on Facebook as the attack  was under way. This comes as attorneys for the shooters' family tells CNN they  saw no warning signs.   
BOLDUAN: Those attorneys say the facts as they know them, they just don't add up. They say Syed Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, showed no indication they  were stockpiling an arsenal of weapons, ammunition or pipe bombs or that they  were planning this horrific attack.    Listen here to the family's attorney.       
DAVID S. CHESLEY, SHOOTERS' FAMILY ATTORNEY: There's a lot of things that just don't make sense. No one seen Syed with any of the things that they -- with some  of the things they found on the scene, they seen him with them.       
BOLDUAN: Joining us now is Hussam Ayloush, the executive director for CAIR, the Council for American Islamic Relations in Los Angeles.    Thank you for joining us.    You spoke with --    HUSSAM AYLOUSH, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, COUNCIL ON AMERICAN ISLAMIC RELATIONS, 
GREATER AMERICAN CHAPTER: Thank you.  
BOLDUAN: Of course. You spoke with the brother-in-law just last night. We heard from their attorneys that they can't make sense of the facts as they're laid  out. What did he tell you? How are they making sense of it, then?   
AYLOUSH: They're not. They're just -- they're completely shocked. They're completely shaken by what happened. It completely took them by surprise because  there were no signs, no warnings that Syed Farook and his wife were taking that  path. There were absolutely no warnings for them. They acted normally. It seems  like they had a double life or they were really good at hiding their -- you  know, what seems to be their new ideology or their intentions.   
