    
HIGHLIGHT: Actor Chris Rock and his wife are reportedly under investigation by South African authorities over a little girl they brought home with them to  adopt. A 25-year-old woman is found dead in a pool of blood the morning after a  first date with a Facebook friend.     
NANCY GRACE, HOST: Breaking news now, live. Movie superstar of "Grown-Ups," "The Longest Yard," "Saturday Night Live," "Bring the Pain," Chris Rock at this hour  allegedly the target of official questions. It all centers around his 7-year-old  little girl amid controversy. Was she legally taken by Chris Rock and his wife?    Bombshell now. This child, a 7-year-old little girl from a bio mom reportedly  who gives her up in South Africa -- she`s been raised the past seven years by  loving parents, funnyman Chris Rock and his wife. And now seven years later, a  foreign government, South Africa, reportedly pipes up about taking the girl?    They can`t even get the Oscar Pistorius case straight, and now they`re messing  with Chris Rock, who gives this little girl a loving home?       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Comedian Chris Rock hit a rocky road in his divorce.  
CHRIS ROCK, ACTOR: People ignore the fact that I`m, you know, a husband and I`m a father.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Questions have reportedly emerged over entertainer Chris Rock and his wife raising a South African girl in their American home for years  without formally adopting her.       
GRACE: A live, Missouri, a 25-year-old mom of two puts her toe in the dating pool and invites a Facebook friend for dinner. Mommy found dead in a pool of  blood.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Relatives found 25-year-old Sharae Bradford`s nude body face down on her bed.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This was a cold-hearted monster that did this to my daughter!   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They believe the person responsible for her death is a man she met on Facebook.       
GRACE: And live, a 25-year-old Florida woman terrified after a female Internet troll steals her face and information, plants it on a dating Web site with the  fake ad, Please fulfill my fantasy, rape me.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A woman allegedly sets up a bogus on-line dating profile for her neighbor urging men to rape her and fulfill her fantasy. How did the  nightmare end?       
GRACE: And live, Baltimore explodes after the unexplained and brutal death of a 25-year-old Baltimore man, Freddie Gray, his spine severed while in police  custody. As we go to air, trial commences for the first trial in the death of  Freddie Gray.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Gray was removed from the van and put back in head first onto the floor of the wagon.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gray`s death a week later sparked riots in the city, and a wave of protests that swept the nation.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: While each of these officers are presumed innocent until proven guilty...   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Officer William Porter will be the first to be tried.      
GRACE: Good evening. I`m Nancy Grace. I want to thank you for being with us.   Bombshell tonight. Movie superstar of "Grown-Ups," "The Longest Yard," "Saturday  Night Live," "Bring the Pain" Chris Rock at this hour the target of officials`  questions. It all centers around his 7-year-old little girl, amid controversy.  Was she legally taken by Chris Rock and his wife?    The child is a 7-year-old little girl from a bio mom who reportedly gives her up  in South Africa. She`s has raised the past seven years, since before she was  even 1 year old, by loving parents, funnyman Chris Rock and his wife. And now  seven years later -- seven years go by and a foreign government, South Africa,  pipes up about taking the girl back? That`s the report.    Hey, they couldn`t even get the Oscar Pistorius case straight, now they`re  messing with Chris Rock, an American, who gives this little girl a loving home?    Straight out to Alexis Tereszcuk, senior reporter, Radaronline.com. OK, Alexis  Tereszcuk, all of this comes to light amidst a divorce, right, between Chris  Rock and his wife. They`ve been together for almost 20 years?   
ALEXIS TERESZCUK, RADARONLINE.COM: They have, actually. They met in 1994. They married in 1996. And it has been a wonderful marriage. He has  spoken so lovingly about how he`s a father and a husband.    But last year, they filed for divorce. He put in his divorce papers that they  only had two children. She filed a response earlier this year and said, No, we  actually have three children. Our third child is a daughter who we brought from  South Africa, and she`s been a joy and a wonderful part of our family.   
GRACE: Well, you know what I`ve been thinking about that, Alexis? It may have been he didn`t name her in his original divorce document -- this is  about child support -- because she hadn`t been legally adopted yet. Now, it`s my  understanding, Alexis, that they are in the middle of legally adopting this  girl. And they`ve had her for seven years. That`s a yes/no, Alexis. Have they  had her for seven years?   
TERESZCUK: Yes.  
GRACE: And isn`t it true they`re in the process of adopting the child?  
TERESZCUK: She is in the process of adopting the child. I don`t believe that he is in the process of adopting.   
GRACE: Well, and it really all depends, doesn`t it, Chris Spargo, reporter, Dailymail.com, because when you`re trying to adopt from another country,  sometimes that can take two or three years to make that adoption official. So  for all I know, this adoption has been in the works for years. But bottom line,  Spargo, they`re adopting the little girl.    And this all comes to light in the divorce papers, right, Spargo?   
CHRIS SPARGO, DAILYMAIL.COM: That is correct.  
GRACE: OK, let me understand something, Chris Spargo. Isn`t it true that Chris Rock and his wife know somehow the bio mom and dad in South Africa, and they  bring her to the U.S. to give her a better life?    By the way, here`s Chris Rock`s "Bring the Pain" from HBO and Dreamworks.    So they bring the girl here to give her a better life. She`s been here seven  years, and now South Africa wants to chime in? Why?   
SPARGO: Yes, that is correct. They met the father back in 2008. He was a waiter at a hotel and Chris Rock was on tour. They spent time with the girl. The girl  has been with them this entire time. So there`s not really known why all of a  sudden they want to jump in and take away this great situation.   
GRACE: OK, unleash the lawyers. Joining me is Nera Shefer, immigration lawyer out of Miami, Randy Kessler out of Atlanta, Robert Schalk out of New York.    I`m a little befuddled about why seven years later -- and I`m not just taking  his side because he`s an American, all right? I don`t have a very good  impression of South Africa after the pathetic show of justice with Oscar  Pistorius, who murders Reeva Steenkamp, and he`s now on house arrest after about  what, 5 months behind bars.    That aside, Kessler, where do they get a leg to stand on? Seven years later,  they`re now honing in on Chris Rock? Really?   
RANDY KESSLER, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: No one says they`re going to take the child back, but they want to make sure that all the I`s are dotted and the T`s are  crossed. It could set a very, very bad precedent if they looked the other way  and said, Oh, he can do this because he`s rich or he`s famous. They`re going to  make sure...   
GRACE: It`s been seven years. He`s already done it, Kessler!  
KESSLER: Well, let`s make sure no one else does it. Let`s see what went wrong this time, make sure it doesn`t happen again. There`s a reason to investigate.   
GRACE: OK. Now, you do know that doesn`t make any sense, right? You do know that.   
KESSLER: It makes perfect sense. It makes great sense, Nancy.  
GRACE: OK. You know what? Nera Shefer, immigration attorney, I am not even...  
NERA SHEFER, IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY: Hi, Nancy. Thank you for having me.   
GRACE: Thank you for being with us. Maybe you can straighten out Kessler and Schalk because after seven years -- what in the world -- why are they going  after Chris Rock? He`s been raising this child and giving her a home. From what  we have learned, the mother lives in very poor conditions. The father doesn`t  have a job. They handed the baby over to Chris Rock and his wife, Malaak. And so  why now, seven years later, Nera?   
SHEFER: Well, Nancy, I don`t know what the South African government is pursuing with this. But what I do know, however, is that South Africa and the United  States are both signatories of the Hague convention. And therefore, for any  international adoption by a U.S. citizen, they have to follow those rules.    And under those rules, the child -- basically, you have two steps here. You have  the adoption per se and then you have the immigration process. For the adoption  per se, the child -- yes, the child could have been either adopted at their born  country or coming to the United States to follow an adoption. So the fact that  they are now saying that they`re doing the adoption could be a true fact.    However, what is an indication that something may be wrong here is the fact that  they had to go through a study, a complete study according to the rules of the  Hague convention. And that study had to basically give a result on a favorable  opinion for them to adopt a child. And then with those papers, they had to file  for a special visa for that child to come into the United States.    And apparently, the reports say that the child came in with a leisure travel  visa, which is not really the visa that is used while you have...       
GRACE: Hold on. You lost me. You lost me.  
SHEFER: ... Hague convention for the adoption.  
GRACE: Nera, Nera, Nera, you lost me. Are you basically saying they`ve got to do a -- an investigation to make sure everything is in order for the adoption to go  forward? Is that what you`re saying?   
SHEFER: I believe so because the adoption -- like I said, it has two processes, and they both have to comply with the steps. One is the adoption and  the other one is the immigration. So...       
GRACE: OK, hold on. I think I`ve got it. I think I`ve got it.  
SHEFER: ... with the proper visa, the adoption for her to be able to then be legal in the United States will not go further.   
GRACE: Everybody, that`s Chris Rock in the movie "Grown-Ups" from Columbia Pictures.    For those of you just joining us, Chris Rock and his wife take in a South  African little girl. I think she`s -- Stacey, wasn`t she under 1 year old when  they took her in?   
STACEY NEWMAN, NANCY GRACE PRODUCER: She was supposedly about 4 or 5 months old, according to reports, when they took her. So it`s been seven years.   
GRACE: So you know, it just seems to me -- let me go to Dr. Terry Lyles, psychologist, author of "Crack the Stress Code." Dr. Terry Lyles, it seems to me  the even suggestion that you would uproot a little girl from the family that  she`s been living with for seven years and send her back home -- to what? To  what, a mom that gave her up to start with?   
TERRY LYLES, PSYCHOLOGIST: Yes, I agree. I mean, it`s all about the family dynamics. And obviously, she`s been here. She`s lived very well. She obviously  fled South Africa for a reason. It sounds like somebody in South Africa smells  money, and they`re trying to figure out what to do to make this a case. And even  though it`s a divorce case...   
GRACE: I don`t know where...  
LYLES: ... this child has to have a better living with Chris Rock.  
GRACE: And it`s not just about the money. They shower this girl with love. That has been evident from day one.    You`re seeing "Longest Yard" from Paramount Pictures with Chris Rock.    And it`s all come to light in the middle of this divorce. I just don`t  understand where South Africa so-called officials are going after Chris Rock,  when all he and his wife did was something good for this child. You may be  right, Lyles, somebody somewhere smells some money.   
LYLES: There`s something wrong.  
GRACE: I mean, the children already have it bad enough.  
LYLES: Yes, there`s something wrong.  
GRACE: They`ve got to go through a divorce. And even though both parents love them, they`ve got all the money in the world, its still -- divorce is still  never a good thing for children. And now this, that their little adopted sister  is going to be snatched away by some paper pusher in South Africa?    OK, Christoalso joining us. Christo, now, they are denying that there is  an investigation, is that right?   
CHRISTO: Yes, that`s true. I spoke to the Hawks, which is the director for priority crime investigation. And they said it`s very simple. There  is no investigation into Chris Rock whatsoever from this point.   
GRACE: Now, let`s go to Missouri. A 25-year-old mom of two puts her toe in the dating pool and invites a Facebook friend over for dinner. Mommy  found dead in a pool of blood.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He had this already planned for him to come in here and do what he did!   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Family members believe their loved one met a man on Facebook, then he dropped by her home for the first time the night she was  killed.       
GRACE: Colin Jeffery joining us, news director, KTRS. OK, Colin, lead me up to them finding the mommy dead in a pool of blood. I want to hear -- oh, OK. See,  that little girl is going to grow up without a mom right there. And I don`t care  what all the shrinks say. No offense, Dr. Lyles, I don`t think anything can  replace a mother`s love. I really don`t. I really don`t.    This mom struggled to have her children in this condo development. She gave it  all she had. She tries to stick her toe back in the dating pool. She meets  somebody on Facebook. We think this is what happened. Whoever killed her is  still on the loose. She is then found dead in a pool of blood.    Now, what is going to become of that little baby girl? Who`s going to raise her?  Who is going to love her like only a mother can?    Colin Jeffery, let`s start with the facts. Let`s start with how her body is  found.   
COLIN JEFFERY, KTRS: Well, thanks a lot for having me, Nancy. Actually, what happened is Sharae Bradford`s family member went to check on her  sometime Saturday evening and found her bloody, nude, lying face down on her bed  in a pool of blood. The family member told police she was conscious at that  time. But by the time...   
GRACE: Whoa! Wait! Wait! Wait! Let me understand that, Colin Jeffery, KTRS. I didn`t understand that. So when they found her, she was still alive?   
JEFFERY: That`s what her family members said.  
GRACE: Oh! You know what that means, Colin? She suffered! She laid there and bled out. She knew she was going to die. That`s got to be just the worst feeling  because you -- you`re thinking about your children. You`re thinking about, How  can I live? How can I take care of them? Oh! OK. You just threw me for a loop  there. I was hoping it was quick. So she was still alive.    All right, take it from there, Colin.   
JEFFERY: Well, when paramedics and police arrived, she was unconscious. They weren`t able to revive her. She was pronounced dead at the scene.    And this is where we noticed an interesting point in this case. Police have been  very tight-lipped from there. They confirm only that they are chasing several  leads but have provided no information on a possible motive or suspect.    Any information we have from that is coming directly from the family.  And they`re the ones who told the press she had met someone or someone she knew  on Facebook and met on Facebook came over that night for the first time.   
GRACE: Well, OK. You know, Colin Jeffery, there`s no coincidence in criminal law. You don`t just meet somebody on Facebook, they come over, and then you`re  found dead in a pool of blood that night?    Is it that night, Colin?   
JEFFERY: Yes, it was that night is what they`re saying.  
GRACE: Oh! OK, Michael Christian. What more do we know?  
MICHAEL CHRISTIAN, NANCY GRACE PRODUCER: Nancy, we know that this woman had a 6-year-old daughter. Thankfully, the daughter was not home at  the time that this happened. So luckily, that did not occur.    But as Colin was saying, the police are being very tight-lipped about this.  They`re not releasing much information. They say they don`t have a motive,  although they did say recently that they may have...   
GRACE: She`s naked, Michael! She`s naked! What, do I have to connect the dots for you? No offense, Michael Christian, but motive? She`s found naked on her  bed, dead. There`s your motive. It was a sex attack, for Pete`s sake. What, do I  have to take the police department to school?       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This was a cold-hearted monster!  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A relative found 25-year-old Sharae Bradford`s nude body face down on her bed.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She just wanted life, the best life possible for her and her daughter!       
GRACE: Guys, this woman is a 25-year-old mom, just absolutely gorgeous. And in practically every picture I found of her, she`s with her child, just showered  the children with love. She sticks her toe in the dating pool. She invites a  Facebook friend over. She`s found dead in a pool of blood.    This is what I don`t get, Ben Levitan. They don`t have a suspect? Why don`t they  start by trying to track her Facebook? I mean, I hope they`re listening. No  offense, cops, but how about tracking her Facebook and her computer? Explain how  to do it, Levitan -- Ben Levitan, telecommunications expert. It`s not that hard,  right?   
BEN LEVITAN, TELECOMMUNICATIONS EXPERT: No, it`s not, Nancy. And the fact is, Facebook does try. Facebook themselves says that 8.7 percent of the  profiles on there are fake. That`s 83 million fake accounts.    But the fact is, we can easily trace who put up that account and actually where  they`re located because when you connect to Facebook or any Web site, Nancy,  that Web site knows where you`re located. And so it could be an easy thing...   
GRACE: Let me understand this. To do a Facebook, you have to give an alternate e-mail that they confirm, correct? Yes/no, Ben.   
LEVITAN: Yes.  
GRACE: OK. So they`ve got an alternate e-mail for them. Now, even if he made up that e-mail, there still has to be an IP. Where did that e- mail come from,  right?   
LEVITAN: There`s an IP address. When you use a computer, that`s your caller ID and that`s your location. And Facebook knows the location of that computer...   
GRACE: So I don`t understand -- Cheryl Dorsey, retired LAPD sergeant, author of "The Creation of the Manifesto Black and Blue," I don`t understand the cops  saying, We don`t have a suspect. We don`t have any leads. Hello? She had a date  that day, the first one with her Facebook friend. She turns up dead the same  night in a pool of blood. What else do we need to know?   
CHERYL DORSEY, RETIRED LAPD SERGEANT: Nancy, I`m confident that the officers have more information than they`re sharing with us. And it makes perfectly good  sense why they wouldn`t want to put out any information about the suspect. And  I`m sure they`ve had an opportunity to process the crime scene, interview  witnesses and family members, and they`re working towards identifying that  suspect.   
GRACE: Well, I`m glad you have faith in that, and I certainly hope you`re right.   Back to Colin Jeffery, KTRS. OK, what are police saying other than they don`t  have a suspect and they don`t know anything?   
JEFFERY: Well, again, they`re really saying very little. What we do know is the family has said -- and the site has many surveillance cameras. So hopefully,  this is something where police can get additional information, maybe find a  picture of who she was with that night, maybe some more clues from that.   
GRACE: Well, if they wait too long, they`re going to lose that, too. Remember Chandra Levy? Remember that? They did not get the video fast enough to see who,  if anyone, she left with. Remember Condit, the congressman? Everybody thought he  killed Chandra Levy. She was going jogging. She did go jogging. If we had had  the video, we would`ve known that. She had on a jogging outfit.    But the cops didn`t go in time, and it erased over it. It recorded over it. So  if they don`t hurry, they`re going to lose this valuable, valuable evidence.       
GRACE: A 25-year-old Florida woman is terrified after a female internet troll steals the woman`s face and information. And she plants it on a dating website  with a fake ad. Please fulfill my fantasies, rape me.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Imagine a knock at the door and then phone calls from men answering a fake online dating ad that talks about rape fantasies and wanting to  make them real.       
GRACE: Okay. This is incredible to me. Roger Schulman, news director of WGUI. Roger, so I understand that the perp, who is allegedly a female internet troll,  goes online. Somehow she gets ahold of photos of this woman. She`s very  attractive. She has her address, her phone number, and she goes on some dating  website. I think it was Plenty of Fish. That`s a huge dating app. Huge. Millions  of people on that. Tell me about the ad she puts on there. Roger Schulman.   
SCHULMAN: She actually put this on the site. The profile said, "please rape me. I want to be raped even if I say no, I`m good at being a slut. "       
GRACE: And she puts it in caps, s-l-u-t, to make sure anybody reading really focuses in on that. So basically, she`s saying, even if I say no and I scream  and I fight, rape me anyway. That`s what I want. And gives the woman`s address?   
SCHULMAN: Gave the woman`s address. And she actually had men showing up at her door ready for action.   
GRACE: Oh dear lord in Heaven. Oh, okay. It`s my understanding that also at like
9:00 in the morning, she starts getting calls on her cell phone of guys that have seen this. Is that true, Roger?   
SCHULMAN: They actually said, I`m on the way over, are you ready? Yes, she was getting numerous calls. She feared for her life. She had to leave her home  because she thought these guys were going to come over and actually rape her.   
GRACE: OK. What is the background? There`s got to be some kind of background between these two women. What do we know?   
SCHULMAN: We know that apparently they lived next to each other for a time.  
GRACE: Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa wait. Hold on. Who is this? Is this the alleged perp? Frances Lee Tapscott, age 39? Okay. So this is the alleged internet troll  who photo fakes her neighbor, I think. Here she is, again, puts her phone  number, her address, real pictures of her, and puts fulfill my fantasy, rape me.    Okay. I`ve got photos of her. We`re not showing photos of the victim. So, Roger,  what is the back story? Do these women have some kind of a feud?   
SCHULMAN: Apparently it started with a dog pooping and allegedly not being cleaned up. From there, it went to numerous police calls about allegations of  thefts and difficulties of all kinds. But it really started with dog poop. A dog  going to the toilet in the yard.   
GRACE: OK. Let me understand this, you know what, I`m looking at this gorgeous condo apartment community there in, I guess, in -- this happened around Tampa,  or no?   
SCHULMAN: Yes, in the Largo, Clearwater area. Beautiful area of Pinellas county, some of the nicest beaches in the world.   
GRACE: Yes. You`ve got to be loaded. You`ve got to be rolling in money to live down there near those beaches. So this certainly shows that you can`t put  perfume on the pig. Because here`s this woman, Frances Lee Tapscott, she`s got a  gorgeous home, lives on one of the most beautiful beaches in the world. And yet,  she`s full of hatred. Now, Justin Freiman, I`m hearing the two had a fight over  a dog taking a poop.   
FREIMAN: Right. That`s what the victim`s been saying. That it was over the dog that was pooping and it`s led to a bit of an ongoing feud the two of them were  having.   
GRACE: So Ben Levitan, telecommunications expert, thanks for sticking with me on this one, Ben. How do you go about -- like if I wanted to steal your I.D., OK, I  already have a picture of you, Ben, how do you -- how do you get somebody`s  photo, get somebody`s phone number and address, and then post that? How does  that work?   
LEVITAN: Nancy, you know this is incredibly easy. These -- any website that is free to sign up is not -- does what they can to limit the fake profiles. But 1  out of 10 dating profiles online today is a fake profile. There`s no way to  control it.   
GRACE: I don`t mean fake. I don`t mean if I were to go and say, oh, I`m 5`11 and weigh 110 pounds and I`m 25 years old. That would be fake. I`m saying stolen!  Stolen! Identity theft. That`s what I`m talking about, Levitan.   
LEVITAN: Well, information is everywhere. These people already had a relationship. It`d be easy to get information. And so much information online,  Nancy. All you need is one piece of mail or a bank account, and you`ve got  everything to set up a profile.   
GRACE: Roger Schulman, WGUL, Roger, question, does the victim say that this woman took a lot of the pictures that were on the fake website?   
SCHULMAN: The victim said she was easily able to identify it because apparently she knew where the pictures of her were taken, and they might have been taken  when they were more friendly. But she identified the background and knew  immediately who took those pictures.   
GRACE: Unleash the lawyers, Randy Kessler, Atlanta. Robert Schalk, New York. All right, Kessler. You going to -- whenever I ask you a question, I might as well  push a button. You`re going to say insanity, mental defect. This woman, this  so-called internet troll, is not crazy. She`s crazy like a fox. She, allegedly,  steals this woman`s I.D., puts her address, her phone number, her picture, and  says fulfill my sex fantasy, come rape me. If I scream and fight you, that`s  just part of my fantasy. Don`t stop. She needs to go to jail for attempted rape.       
KESSLER: She didn`t attempt to rape anybody. She might have tried to get somebody to do something. But she didn`t solicit somebody and say I`m going to  pay you to rape her. These men even knew it was fake. They helped find the  person that did it. They said, let me help you. They didn`t go in and rape her.  She didn`t get raped, it didn`t happen. It was a bad idea.   
GRACE: Let`s get our facts straight. Last I checked, Kessler, bad idea is not really a defense. So Justin Freiman, the guys who were actually going to her  home to fulfill her fake fantasy of being brutally raped. When she told them, I  did not post this, that is when they said, let me help you. And what did they  do, Justin?   
FREIMAN: That`s right. They actually were then chatting through the app with the person who actually placed that ad. And taking screen grabs of those chats, and  then also through the photographs that were being posted to the app, they were  able to focus the investigation on the defendant.   
GRACE: So Robert Schalk, you heard Kessler, his defense, it was all a bad idea. Do you have anything better than that for me?   
SCHALK: This is not necessarily a case of she didn`t do it, this is the case of mitigating the damages. If she has no criminal record, you`re looking at a  misdemeanor charge, you are going to --   
GRACE: Misdemeanor? Who said misdemeanor?  
SCHALK: For purposes of plea bargaining -- negotiation--  
GRACE: I`m not looking at a misdemeanor. I`m looking at a felony. A conspiracy to commit rape.   
SCHALK: She`s not charged with that, Nancy. She`s charged with stalking. Again, that prosecutorial mindset for overcharging something for something they didn`t  do has got to stop. She`s only charged with stalking here. We`re  oversensationalizing the facts.       
GRACE: Baltimore explodes after the unexplained and brutal death of a 25-year-old Baltimore man, Freddie Gray. His spine is severed while in police  custody. Now, as we go to air right now, trial commencing for the first trial in  the death of Freddie Gray.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He`s the first of six Baltimore officers to face trial in the death of Freddie Gray. The 25-year-old man suffered a severe spinal injury.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Another key question, why it took so long for Gray to get medical attention. About 42 minutes elapsed between the time Gray was put into  the police van and when a medic was called.       
GRACE: Okay. What I want to say is very, very critical. The trial is commencing. It`s happening. I want to see the video of where they take Mr. Gray -- watch  this. Watch this. Yes. See. He steps up on his feet. Oh, darn it. Look at this.  Look at this. Oh, there you go. There you go. He was able to walk. He`s -- there  he is kneeling. Hold on. Wait. Wait for it. Right there. You see him step up on  his left leg? And okay, they`re dragging him some more. But he steps, gets up  there, his right leg moves and he gets up on his right leg. All right. Then he  gets in.    Straight out to Miguel Marquez, CNN national correspondent. Miguel, thank you  for being with us. Miguel is planted at the courthouse. That video is critical  in my mind, Miguel. And thank you for joining us. That shows his spine was not  severed when he got into that transfer van. His spine was not severed.   
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It`s not clear that prosecutors are going to argue that. From the charges they have laid out against the six officers, it is  quite possible they will say he was injured in that van, possibly because of a  rough ride, because of the way he was put in that van, the fact that he was not  seat belted at several points during the ride. And also with the individual who  is up on trial first, 25-year-old William Porter. He checked on Mr. Gray at  various points along that 40- minute ride that he took. And even though Gray at  one point told him he needed a medic, they all failed to get medical care for  him, and then the result is obviously that we know, Mr. Gray died.   
GRACE: Okay, Miguel, tell me one more time, why are they trying Porter first?  
MARQUEZ: It`s his statements. He made statements after Mr. Gray was injured. There were investigators flooded the zone that he died and there was an even  wider investigation. The officers involved in his arrest were talked to. Porter  made statements, at least according to the Baltimore Sun, that were at least in  part incriminating to other officers. In particular, Caesar Goodson, the driver  of the van. Caesar Goodson called Porter and said hey, I`ve got a guy in the  back, he`s having a problem, something is wrong, can you come check on him.  Porter comes around, checks on him, asks Gray, do you need a medic? Gray says  uh-huh. He tells Goodson, you should not take him to the precinct, you should  take him to the hospital, they`re not going to accept him there, he needs  medical help. That didn`t happen.   
GRACE: Why?  
MARQUEZ: Porter also though said -- I wasn`t quite sure if Gray was lying or not. But best to take him to the hospital. But I couldn`t tell if he just had  jail-itis, didn`t want to go to jail, and was faking an injury. That`s why  Porter is up. Because they want those statements in order to get other officers  --       
GRACE: Let me understand something. With me is Miguel Marquez, CNN national correspondent, right outside the courthouse. The trial is commencing in the  death of a Baltimore man, Freddie Gray, who gets his spine severed while he`s in  police custody.    I am throwing Miguel a lot of medical questions. Let me go to Dr. William  Morrone, forensic pathologist and renowned medical examiner. Dr. Morrone, I  don`t understand how you can get a severed spine and die, just because you get  a, quote, rough ride. They didn`t have a wreck. They didn`t have a crash. I  don`t understand that. A rough ride. What is that? You turn the corner sharply?  How can you die from that?   
MORRONE: Here`s how this works. Below the skull, as you go down at different levels, if the spine is severed, you lose certain functions.        And the spine is severed when -- these are cans of beans. But let`s say they are  vertebrae in the back. When they are dislodged, instead of sitting on top of  each other, it cuts the spine. Anything around cervical, C-3, 4, 5, stops  breathing.   
GRACE: Okay. Stop right there. Stop right there. We all know you`re the M.D., and I`m just a J.D. What do you mean cervical 2, 3, 4, and 5? Cervical has a lot  of different meanings, Morrone.   
MORRONE: Okay. Let`s lift it up to the neck. And in the neck, you have cervical vertebrae. Then in the chest, you have thoracic vertebrae, and then you have  lumbar vertebrae, lower back above the butt. The cervical vertebrae are numbered  one through seven. One through seven. And they stack on top of each other, and  it holds the weight of the head. When they dislocate, when they are forced like  this, that cuts the spine. Between 3, 4, and 5, those are the nerves in the  spinal cord that enervate breathing.   
GRACE: Okay. I get it. Let me understand something. Dr. Morrone, you`re saying that if these cervical -- what do you say --   
MORRONE: Vertebrae.  
GRACE: Vertebrae just become disaligned, then you don`t -- the brain`s message doesn`t get to the lungs to keep breathing?   
MORRONE: Because breathing is a spontaneous and subconscious event in the nervous system, when you damage 3, 4, 5, the nerves, you stop breathing.   
GRACE: Okay. I get it. So Miguel Marquez, standing with me in front of the courthouse, it doesn`t necessarily mean that his spine was cracked in half like  kindling wood, like a pencil. It could mean what Morrone is saying, that two of  these become disconnected. And I get where that can happen if you`re sitting in  a mobile transfer, like a paddy wagon, and you fly off a seat and land, you  could do that very easily, I guess, right?   
MARQUEZ: What the defense is going to argue in this case, this has all come down to the medical experts. It`s very interesting to listen to them. Is that Mr.  Gray was in the back of the van, his hands shackled, handcuffed behind him, and  his legs as well because he was rowdy with the police officers earlier. They  stuck him into the van, chest down, face down onto the van floor. The defense is  going to argue that he somehow struggled to his knees, shackled and handcuffed,  and at some point the van perhaps came to even a normal stop, and he pitched  forward on all his weight, and that`s where the damage to his spine came. It may  be unfortunate. It may be an accident. And they are sorry for it. But it was not  the police officers` fault, is what they are going to argue.           
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Gray was removed from the van and put back in, head first onto the floor of the wagon.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gray`s death a week later sparked riots in the city, and a wave of protests that swept the nation.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Each of these officers are presumed innocent until proven guilty.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Officer William Porter will be the first to be tried.      
GRACE: Miguel Marquez standing by, CNN national correspondent. I want to understand one more thing about Freddie Gray`s death. Is it correct, Miguel,  that the officers put him in head first with his head on the ground, on the  floor of the --   
MARQUEZ: Yes. Floor of the van, head first, on his belly. Hands handcuffed, legs shackled, and basically lying there. And at some point, the defense is going to  argue, he got up on his knees, and when the van stopped, even a normal stop, he  went forward, pitched forward, all of his weight, and that`s where he hit his  neck and damaged that spinal column.   
GRACE: Is it true, Miguel, that there is going to be testimony that people heard him scream out in pain?   
MARQUEZ: It is possible. There was somebody else -- at some point in that ride, there was somebody else in the other side. The van is separated by a metal  grate. You can`t see from one side to the other. It was separated. That person  may say it. But it is also that person has said two things that are  contradictory, so not clear.   
GRACE: Okay. Let`s remember American hero, Wisconsin police officer Ryan Copeland, just 33. Killed in the line of duty. An Army vet, a Green Beret,  served as a K9 officer. Loved golf. His dogs, Chloe and Boris. Parents Allen and  Lori, three brothers, widow high school sweetheart Amanda. Ryan Copeland,  American hero.    Today is giving Tuesday. To support 4-H`s unselfie campaign, #givingcloverday,  donate to help 4h youth. Thanks to our guests, but especially you for being with  us. Nancy Grace signing off. I`ll see you tomorrow night, 8:00 sharp Eastern,  and until then, good night, friend.   
