    
HIGHLIGHT: World leaders are gathering in Paris right now for the much anticipated summit on climate change. A woman hid for five hours inside the  Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood clinic, steps away from a man who was  shooting at police. Pope Francis is in the Central African Republic and will  meet with refugees where he hopes to underline the importance of uplifting  people in need.     
 PHIL BLACK, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: But at the same time, the primary reason for President Obama and 146 other heads of state coming here  is the fight against climate change. So this conference is going ahead under  those circumstances, under enormous security and the collective message from  President Obama, from the other leaders, is that we can deal with terrorists, we  can talk about terrorism, but we can also focus our attention on other big  important issues.    And so, for the people gathering here, they would argue there isn't a more  important issue than climate change because this is all about the future of the  planet. So, in that context, President Obama's important meetings over the  coming days will be with the leaders of country that are currently among the  biggest emitters of carbon dioxide, India, China. These meetings are crucial to  securing constructive dialogue and results that could eventually lead to a  strong and solid ambitious deal that would see countries curbing their CO2  emissions to meet the stated goal of this conference which is keeping  temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius, compared to pre- industrial levels.    Now, meeting that specific goal isn't likely but the hope is they can get some  sort of brainwork in place, something that is constructive, something that  really drives forward from here and result in more solid, more ambitious targets  and aspirations in the future -- Christi.   
CHRISTI PAUL, CNN ANCHOR: Well, you mentioned China. We know that President Obama is meeting with China's president. And as you mentioned, they are two of  the strongest emitters.    Wondering if an agreement here on this subject specifically could lead to other  talks with China, specifically about ISIS? Because with we know that the Chinese  government was furious recently at is' execution of two of their citizens.   
BLACK: Yes. It's interesting in that climate change in particular is an issue that the United States and China have been working upon increasingly  constructively. It's one of the reasons why there is a real sense of optimism  around this conference. This is what has been missing from previous gatherings  here like this. And certainly there is a hope, some would say, that that degree  of constructiveness could have other agreements between China and the United  States. There is also a concern, if you like, that the U.S. is softer with China  on some issues and security issues in particular, in order to try to secure more  agreement here when it comes to the climate. So, it works both ways, but there  is no doubt that China, that meeting between the two presidents is crucial. As I  say, the meeting with India also important because while security and terrorism,  it will feature here. There's no way that it cannot.    The primary goal here is to try and come up with a strong climate agreement and  there is the belief, and it's been stated by a number of world leader, that to  do so would be the ultimate act of defiance to the terrorists who are  responsible for the attacks here recently.   
PAUL: Very good point. Phil Black, so appreciate it. Thank you.  
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: This is just one of the protests around the world this morning, protesters hitting the street. New video in from Geneva,  Switzerland, activists joining others in solidarity and calling for policy  changes on climate change, from Hong Kong to Seattle. Millions are expected to  voice their concerns on the environment.    You see here, some of the displays from around the world, thanks to some of our  partners globally. Many demonstrators expressing similar messages on posters,  shirts, writing, quote, "There is no plan B". We have heard from many of the  people who will be there or wanted to protest in Paris that if we do not get  this right, speaking about climate change policy, then it does not matter what  comes second.    Let's discuss now with security concerns further. The terrorism expert we have  with us is Jean-Charles Brisard.    Jean-Charles, good to have you this morning.    I want to start, first, despite what we saw there and we understand that going  on with this conference is not just a dedication to the topic, but an inspection  of resolve there in Paris, there are some Parisians who say that there are other  topics that should come before this and this should not go on.    Your thoughts.   
JEAN-CHARLES BRISARD, TERRORISM EXPERT: I think terrorism will be one of the issues, of course, because all of the leaders will be here, because President  Hollande has called for a broad coalition against ISIS in Syria, because here in  Europe, we are dealing with a specific security in terms of security. Measures  need to be taken in common here in Europe and in coordination with our  international partners.    So, this conference, maybe the place to really discuss these matters and why not  reach an agreement at least on minimal standards of what should be done in  common in Syria and Iraq to defeat ISIS.   
 BLACKWELL: Certainly, the 140 or so world leaders being in one place is a large concern but from what I understand, that is quite confined and  managed and many will be out within 24 hours. But it's the larger numbers that  could be targets for terrorists. What has this country done to try to eliminate  that threat?   
BRISARD: Well, today in Paris and around Paris, especially around COP21, there is more than 100,000 military officers, police officers in charge of securing  that event. Also, the French intelligence, in coordination with many other  partners are coordinating to defeat the remnant of these networks and those who  in the Paris attacks are still at large for some of them. And also, the third  thing is that we have reinstated border controls not only our international  borders, but also a council of the E.U. has decided to have systemic controls in  the external borders of Schengen, in order to protect really not only Europe but  also France in these lots of time.   
BLACKWELL: We know world leaders will be in and out in a day or two, but this conference goes, some of the 40,000 delegation will be there a week or two. What  is the impact on what is this lockdown now in Paris on the Parisians, on the  people there?   
BRISARD: Well, this lockdown is very important, not only because of this conference, but also because, as you know, with the investigation into the Paris  attack is still ongoing and we know that several individuals who participated in  ways or not to these attacks, in preparation or in logistics are still at large.  So, they have much power in terms of searching homes and individuals, in terms  of also getting our hands on many aspects that we couldn't in reality, usually.    So, this is an issue that is currently being investigated and also, again, it  gives us more power to secure the specific evidence.   
BLACKWELL: All right. Jean-Charles Brisard, thank you so much.  
PAUL: It is certainly a startling find and can you imagine? A newborn baby left under a piece of asphalt. Everyone is asking now where is the person who left  her there? We will tell you what we know.    And you'll hear from a woman who hid for five hours inside the Colorado Springs  Planned Parenthood clinic. What was it like to be steps away from a man who was  shooting at police?   
BLACKWELL: We are hearing the compelling stories from survivors who were held hostage at the planned parenthood there in Colorado springs for hours during  that siege. One of them is 22-year-old Kentanya Craion. She's pregnant. And she  went with her boyfriend to the Planned Parenthood to get an ultrasound and  that's when she heard gunshots.       
REPORTER: When you heard the gunman outside, what did he look like?  
KENTANYA CRAION, HELD HOSTAGE INSIDE COLORADO CLINIC: Like he had not remorse, this was just a game to him.   
REPORTER: Do you immediately recognize those as gunshots?  
CRAION: No, I didn't. It took someone to tell me to get down, you know, that there is a gunshot, even then, I couldn't register because it felt so surreal  and at that point when I had heard the gunshots, I was able to make out a  picture of what was going on because I saw the gunman and I saw him shooting.  And once I realized that this is really happening is when I -- I flee the scene  and went in the back room.    I ran down the hall. I tried to open one door, it was locked. I opened another  door and there was two people there, one was a nurse and one was an actual  patient. When I heard around the second gunshots, you could clearly tell it was  in the building and it was near, it was close.    One of the ladies inside of me started screaming and I had to tell her to remain  calm and the gunshots were clear as day. We actually had a bullet come through  our wall and went through one and the other and you could see the gun powder and  smell it. It was just frightening at that point. We all just wanted to get out.       
BLACKWELL: Well, Craion hasn't heard from her boyfriend since the attack. We don't know yet if she has made contact with him, but police say they won't  release the names of any of the victims until Monday.   
PAUL: The two women out for a walk find a newborn baby buried alive near a bike path in a river bed. This is in Compton, California. It was a baby girl believed  to be two days old under that foot of asphalt. Police say she was wrapped in a  hospital blanket and she was cold.       
SGT. MARVIN JARAMILLA, LOS ANGELES SHERIFF'S DEPT.: And after removing some debris and some asphalt, they located the newborn baby. That was clearly  underneath -- clearly on the ground underneath about a foot of rubble, asphalt  and some debris.       
PAUL: The baby is in stable condition but police are looking for the person who left that child because that person is facing attempted murder and child  endangerment charges.   
BLACKWELL: This morning, a message of peace for a country divided.  
PAUL: Pope Francis is in the Central African Republic and will meet with refugees in a few moments where he hopes to underline the importance of  uplifting people in need.   
 PAUL: We want to share with you some of the new pictures we are getting in of Pope Francis visiting a refuge camp. This is in the Central  African Republic. It is the last stop on his trip through Africa in the city  here. The camp is housing hundreds of people displaced from their homes because  of the ongoing violence on this war torn country.   
BLACKWELL: Our Vatican correspondent Delia Gallagher is traveling with the pope and she joins us by the phone.    So, what was the pope's message today visiting the CAR?   
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Victor, I don't know if you can hear me. I heard you say what was the pope's message today. And I  want to tell you that at that refuge center, he has them all chanting, "We are  brothers and sisters".    Clearly, the pope can only have one message in this country and that is peace.  This is a country which, since the 1960s, has essentially been in civil war and  in conflict and last two years had no social order or government structure. They  are put in a transition government here as opposed get elections going with the  help of the U.N. this month in December.    So it is a very complex situation between a Muslim and griffin and rebel groups  essentially fighting for power. It's not a fight necessarily over religion but a  fight for the control and natural resources here and diamonds and minerals and  gold.    The pope, obviously, his trip here is overshadowed by the security concerns.  When we arrived at the airport, I have to say that the people said to me, we are  so happy that he came, we were worried because the press kept talking about the  problems of security and he would be safe here. They said they need the pope to  be here because they feel like everybody has ignored them and forgotten them,  and that is really the reason that Pope Francis has come here and archbishop of  this capital city said every community, the Muslim community, the Christian  community and even the armed men, he said, were ready to welcome the pope.    But people are still out in full force. They're little kids at the refugee  center. I hope you could see it, those kind of rushing around the security to  try and get to the pope. They are quite fast and managed to do it a few times.    But the enthusiasm obviously and the appreciation for the people coming here to  draw attention to this part world is immense. Of course, he will be visiting a  mosque tomorrow in a Muslim area which is considered still a violent area. But  he has his security with him. Let's see how it goes.    We're back in Rome tomorrow night and this 6-day trip in Africa -- Victor.   
BLACKWELL: Compassionate response from the people there in the car and his entire trip there. Delia, and we got all the pictures you were calling for --  thank you so much by phone, our Vatican correspondent.    Let's talk about these slick roads that people are dealing with as they're  heading back home after the Thanksgiving break. Thousands of people still  without power. Nasty storm hitting the central plains on, as we said, one of the  busiest travel days of the year.   
PAUL: And following in the footsteps of Black Friday, Cyber Monday is starting early, too, apparently. Details on how much you online shoppers are expected to  spend. Have you started?   
 PAUL: Here is a look at the stories making headlines this morning.  
BLACKWELL: Yes, details now emerging about a possible motive in the attack on a Planned Parenthood clinic that killed three people. Sources tell CNN the accused  shooter mentioned, quote, "baby parts", expressed anti-abortion views, also made  some anti-government statements to investigators, but officials caution it is  still too early to be certainly about his intent, motive.    We'll have more on these new developments at the top of the hour.   
PAUL: Meanwhile, all three Democratic presidential candidates are in New Hampshire today back on the campaign trail after the Thanksgiving holiday, of  course. Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders and Martin O'Malley speaking at the  Jefferson Jackson dinner tonight in Manchester.    And Chris Christie picking up a major endorsement in the Granite State. The  newspaper "The Union Leader" endorsing the Republican candidate saying, quote,  "Christie is right for these dangerous times."   
BLACKWELL: Cyber Monday starting on Sunday. Stores like Walmart, JCPenney kicking it off today. National Retail Federation says online sales this year  could hit $105 billion. It's been ten years since the first Cyber Monday.   
PAUL: And the Central Plains hit so hard by a winter storm. We're thinking about all of you who are there. Highways iced over, power lines ripped out. More than  a thousand people have died in Texas, Kansas and Oklahoma from icy wrecks and  heavy flooding. This ice and snow obviously hitting on one of the busiest travel  days of the year. I know so many of you are trying to get home from the holiday.    So, we want to bring in meteorologist Allison Chinchar.    Can you give them any hope for what is yet ahead today?   
ALLISON CHINCHAR, AMS METEOROLOGIST: It just depends on where your end destination is going to be, or perhaps your beginning destination, because  weather isn't bad everywhere. But it is going to cause complications in a good  chunk of the country. We have a frontal boundary sitting here. The back half of  it really is not moving very much.    So, we've got the rain stretching basically horizontally up toward Washington,  D.C., New York, all the way toward Texas. We have winter weather out behind it.  That's causing most of our big problems as we transition into the rest of the  day. We've got the ice storm that is out behind it. Notice around parts of  Oklahoma and Kansas we have the cold air off to the north.    Again, with the front not moving, we've got a lot of watches and warnings out  there as well. We have flood watches and warnings. The flood watches and  warnings are around the Arkansas area and Tennessee and Mississippi and  Louisiana.    Again, that's what we're seeing the flooding rains but heavy rain is expected  all the way up towards New York.    So, Christi, if you're planning to travel cities like New York, Washington,  D.C., Atlanta, Cincinnati, Memphis, and a lot of are big hubs, you're going to  be dealing with travel problems. Oklahoma City, around Wichita, it's more of an  ice threat on those particular cities. So, again, it's going to be convenient as  we take a look into the next couple of days with the next system that will be  moving in as we head into Minnesota on Monday.   
PAUL: There's always a next one. Alisyn Chinchar, thank you so much.   I'm sorry, I can't make it in tomorrow.       
PAUL: I'm stuck in New York.   Thank you so much for starting your morning with us.   
BLACKWELL: Your NEW DAY continues right now.      
PAUL: Good morning. We're grateful to have your company. I'm Christi Paul.  
BLACKWELL: I'm Victor Blackwell. Good morning to you.   And we're starting this morning with the new details in a possible motive in the  attack on a Planned Parenthood facility that killed three people including a  veteran police officer. Nine others injured there.   
PAUL: Yes, police sources tell CNN the suspect Robert Dear mentioned, quote, "body parts," along with anti-abortion views and anti government statements.  Officials caution it is too early to be certain of his intent.   
BLACKWELL: We learned the propane tanks were found near the suspect are intended to create some explosions.   
PAUL: And there are new details about the remote area where the suspect lived. CNN spoke with some of his neighbors who describe the area as, quote, off the  grid, as you can see for yourself.       
ROBERT DALRYMPLE, LIVES IN HARTSEL, COLORADO: It isn't a tight knit community where everybody knows everybody. Most people are up here because they want to be  on their own. I don't know that many people. I like to stay by myself.       
BLACKWEL: The president of Planned Parenthood in the Rocky Mountains released a statement slamming the attack. And here's part of that statement, "Eye witnesses  confirm that the man charged with the tragic and senseless shooting was  motivated by opposition to safe and legal abortion."    Now, we know the FBI is conducting its own investigation trying to determine if  federal charges should be filed.    We have with us to talk now, CNN law enforcement analyst and former director of  the U.S. Marshals Office, Art Roderick.   
