    
HIGHLIGHT: Officials are saying that there were 14 people killed and 21 other injured in the mass shooting happened in San Bernardino. FBI believed that the  suspect and his wife was radicalized when they both went to Middle East. Both  Republicans and Democrats are offering their thoughts and prayers to the victims  and their families.     
 BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN HOST: Dan Simon, you are outside one of the medical centers treating some of those who were injured. What's an update on  those survivors there?   
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Brooke. Of the five people brought to this particular hospital, all five are in stable condition. And that is remarkable  when you consider what some of them had to go through. One of the victims who is  being treated here is 24-year-old Kevin Ortiz. He works as an environmentalist  for the county. He was in the bang wet hall and this is how his aunt described  what he had to go through.       
ROSA ORTIZ, NEPHEW SHOT: The doors open and he saw two masked people dressed in black. And he still thought it was a drill. He felt his first shot on his leg,  but he said it felt more like someone just threw something at him. It wasn't  really sharp pain immediately until a few seconds later. And then he ended up  sustaining another shot on his shoulder. So his reaction then this is real. Let  me get under the table. So he got under the table. And according to Kevin, the  gunman came back and shot him again.       
SIMON: And Kevin was able to pick up his cell phone, call his relatives and say that he loved them. He was actually calling to say good-bye. And we have heard  other stories like that. People who thought they were going to die and reached  for their cell phones and called loved ones.    Brooke, this isn't, of course, the only hospital with victims. You have five  more atuniversity medical center. Two there in critical condition  and three in fair condition. Thankfully all of the victims who at least were  taken to various hospitals are going to survive -- Brooke.   
BALDWIN: That's excellent news. Dan, thank you for the update.   But now to the more grim side of the story here with Boris Sanchez. As we have  been reporting on this number 14, 14 people murdered this time yesterday. We now  have an image of one of the victims.   
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right. We have been able to confirm this moments ago. One of the deceased is Nicholas Thalasinos. He is an older man. And  found what appears to be his Facebook profile. There he is. A family member  telling CNN affiliate that he worked for the department of health. From his  Facebook page, we can tell you that he was very religious. There were several  bible quotes on his Facebook page as well as notes of condolence from friends  and loved ones. We know that he has two sons. They are right now apparently too  distraught to speak to the media.    Part of the reason it's been hard to get more of the names of the deceased is  because officials revealed that during the shooting a sprinkler went off and it  flooded a room that people were inside. It took so much time for the room to be  drained out for the sprinkler system to be shut off in that phase that IED was  discovered so the bomb squad was sent in. Bomb squad technicians took a long  time to clear the campus not allowing crime scene investigators to get in,  identify the bodies and then contact the families of the deceased.    So we are still waiting, as you said, to get full confirmation from police. I  can tell you that we have several names that have been passed along by family  members and friends. However, out of respect to their families because we don't  have confirmation that all the family has been notified, we're not releasing  those names.   
BALDWIN: We want to be so, so cautious. Do we know, I know the police just chief said that they are hoping to release most of the names at some point today, have  all the bodies been removed?   
SANCHEZ: We are not exactly sure. It appears that because of the delay in actually getting the coroner and the crime scene investigators in there to  detail everything that they have to detail, it's not clear exactly what phase  that's in. But we did hear from officials earlier this afternoon that hopefully  by 5:00 p.m. pacific time today we'll be able to release at least some of those  names.   
BALDWIN: And some of those stories of those lives lost will be told in the coming days. I'm sure.    Boris Sanchez, thank you so much.    Next here, we will take you back live to where the shooting occurred just about  24 hours ago, the Inland regional center where they were just helping people in  the community, folks with disabilities doing the right thing. We're getting new  information here about the victims, as Boris has just reporting, and the  investigation, very active investigation here. We'll be right back.   
 BALDWIN: I want to take you back to San Bernardino, California, as we're getting all kinds of new information here from the police chief who has  really just been incredible, you know. He was talking a little bit about the  shooters, these killers from the massacre that happened within that facility in  San Bernardino yesterday. This facility that is gored to help those with special  needs and disabilities.    Twenty one people injured, 14 killed. And we now have, according to some sources  from some of justice correspondent here at CNN, confirming that this 28-year-old  male, this husband and wife duo may have been radicalized. Investigators say  that he had traveled to Saudi Arabia in 2013. That is apparently when he met his  27-year-old wife. The couple died in this hail of police gunfire after leading  officers on this pursuit just hours after they opened fire on this holiday party  at this facility in San Bernardino. Inside of their California townhouse,  authorities found multiple pipe bombs and materials that would be used to build  bombs and IEDs and thousands of rounds of ammunition.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The suspect when they entered fired somewhere between 65 and 75 rounds from their rifles at the scene. We did locate the one pipe bomb that  was actually three pipe bombs combined into one that had a remote control car,  type remote control device that appears to have not have worked in this it case.  There were also four high capacity 223 rifle magazines that were dropped by the  suspects and left in there as evidence that had been recovered.       
 BALDWIN: Let's go straight now back to San Bernardino, back to my colleague Poppy Harlow.    And Poppy, let's just begin with - I know you're near right now where the  shooting happened, but you have been at these killer's home where they have we  have this, you know, phenomenal aerial footage now of, you know, FBI walking  through the townhouse and looking at their cars. Tell me what's happening right  now?   
POPPY HARLOW, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I mean, it's remarkable to think this is in a neighborhood that community members were telling me last night. It is just a  community that's very tightly knit of young professionals and their families. I  was there until the middle of the night last night. And you had literally  military-grade vehicles that were in front of this house searching it because  apparently this is where they planned and plotted what the law enforcement  sources tell us is premeditated attack as police chief said today, Brooke. You  don't just go to a holiday party, get upset and do this. Talking about 12  different pipe bombs. Talking about a homemade bomb lab potentially in the town.    You see the FBI right now. They are doing this as we speak, going into that  garage, pulling items out. The president saying today, the FBI is taking the  lead on this.    What have they found? We don't know specifics of what has been found in the  house. We should know a little later today when they have that next press  conference. And you know, Brooke, last night when I was there, they were not  sending officers inside. They were sending robot inside to see if there were any  explosive devices that they could then execute a controlled detonation on.   
BALDWIN: Then, in addition to what they are looking for in this townhouse, we heard from the police chief today detailing the thousands of rounds of  ammunition that they had in their car. And not only that, the tactical vests. It  was a tactical vest as some people thought they were wearing, tactical vest  where you can put, you know, more magazines and more guns.   
HARLOW: Yes. This is someone at 28 years old who every single person who knew him, who spoke of him publically yet says they are shocked. Never thought  anything like this. This is someone, Brooke, who we have learned Syed Farook had  zero criminal record. Bought all four of those guns legally over the past three  or four years, was with not on the radar of authorities at all.    The only potential tip is what we're hearing now from law enforcement to our  Evan Perez and Pamela Brown that there was some radicalization that he was in  touch over social media and the phone a few months ago with people with  terrorist ties. But they are calling those soft connections. Not high target  terrorist individuals overseas. It is scary, but it is the reality that this is  someone who flew completely under the radar, no sign whatsoever, carries this  out, attacks, kills 14 and had potentially other attacks on the way.   
BALDWIN: Yes. To just be clear, you know, some folks are jumping to conclusions and you can see why in some of these when you were looking at some of the  details here. But FBI saying, you know, not sure yet haven't concluded if it was  workplace violence or terrorism.    Poppy Harlow, in San Bernardino, thank you so much.    Next, the president calling for gun reform, again, in the aftermath of this  shooting. Republicans are saying that is not the answer. A closer look at the  political rhetoric that has been flying today and the controversy raging on  social media.       
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't believe we can stop every incident of gun violence, but we sure can stop a lot of them. And we need to  take action now.       
 BALDWIN: From southern California to our nation's capital, the country is reeling from the bloody massacre that happened right around this time  yesterday in San Bernardino. President Obama responded with calls for stricter  gun laws.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think that as the investigation moves forward, it's going to be important for all of us, including our  legislatures, to see what we can do to make sure that when individuals decide  they want to do somebody harm, we're making a little harder for them to do it  because right now, it's just too easy.   
BALDWIN: We had a bunch of candidates weighing in on the democratic side.    You have Hillary Clinton tweeting, I refuse to accept this as normal. We must  take action to stop gun violence now.    Senator Bernie Sanders with this, mash shootings are becoming an almost everyday  occurrence in this country. This sickening and senseless gun violence must stop.    Republicans speaking out as well, although offering a difference response. Here  is an example.       
GOV. JOHN KASICH, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't believe that gun control is going to fix this. I don't think that is the answer. I think people want to  be able to defend themselves. And you can have gun control that people who are  intent on doing harm are going to figure out a way to get their weapons.   
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's not a gun control issue. This is not about gun control if you think that the shooting in California is  about gun control, then you don't understand what's going on in the world.   
SEN. TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Our prayers with the family of those who were shot and murdered. And all of us are deeply concerned that this is yet  another manifestation of terrorism, radical Islamic terrorism here at home.   
SEN. MARCO RUBIO, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Of course our thoughts and prayers are with those that have been impacted by the attacks in California last night.       
BALDWIN: So the Democrats, the Republicans and then there was this. This is Connecticut senator Chris Murphy who pushed for gun control after Sandy Hook  massacre killing all those elementary school children and some adults couple of  Decembers ago. And he tweeted, your thoughts should be about steps to take -- or  to stop this carnage. Your prayers, in quotes, should be for forgiveness if you  do nothing again.    There was also the cover of the New York "Daily News" blasting lawmakers with  this. God isn't fixing this, in big bold block letters surrounding this headline  with tweets from Republicans in Congress.    Our CNN senior media correspondent host of "RELIABLE SOURCES" is with me now  with more on this cover of the "Daily News."    And so even though a lot of people in the twitter sphere, not just Republican  members of Congress are talking about thoughts and prayers, their audience was  Republicans 
.  BRIAN STELTER CNN SENIOR MEDIA CORRESPONDENT:Absolutely. I think we are seeing how an idea goes viral, Brooke. This wasn't something we heard talked about months ago, but recently in recent days and  weeks we've heard complaints about this notion that thoughts and prayers isn't  always expressed but then little more is ever said or done afterwards. Now, when  we slowly come to a head last night which resulted in this cover, an editor for  Think Progress, which is a liberal news site.   
BALDWIN: Yes.  
STELTER: Started re-tweeting all of the different politicians, Republican politicians who are coming forward expressing thoughts and prayers. I think we  can put an example on screen. This was a tweet directed at Paul Ryan  . He said got $2,000 from the NRA during the 2014 cycle to keep the  San Bernardino victims in their prayers and little else.    So the implicit message of these dozens of retweets was these thoughts and  prayers is all that the politicians ever say. They never actually follow up with  action. And that's exactly what the "Daily News" is saying with this cover as  well. It's a very controversial cover. But that's the intent of "Daily News," to  get us talking.   
BALDWIN: Which is precisely what's happening, but what's the backlash?  
STELTER: They have been on a crusade for a long time to decrease gun violence and to increase gun control. The "Daily News" makes no bones about it they want  to see more steps taken. We have heard from the editor this afternoon, he is  defending the cover saying we are not anti-religion. Anybody who says we are is  just trying to distract people from our message which is politicians are not  actually taking action. They are only sharing words. Kind of goes back to the  old saying that you want to see people act, not what they say. That's what the  "Daily News" is saying here. They want to see politicians act.   
BALDWIN: I think it's not just the daily news saying that as well.  
STELTER: And then, of course, the debate is, what's the action is? And that's the heart of it.   
BALDWIN: Listen. We have an election coming up, and we're hearing some solutions from some folks. So there's that. And then there was this. When the story broke  during this show yesterday, you know, I couldn't help it. I said here we go  again. BBC put it this way.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just another day in the United States of America. Another day of gunfire, panic and fear.       
STELTER: Wow. BALDWIN: Just another day in the United States. Is this how people around the world --?   
STELTER: Outsiders perceptive. You know, it is very helpful once in a while to hear how we are covered in the rest of the world. If the "Daily News" is the  insider's perspective coming from a left point of view.   
BALDWIN: Yes.  
STELTER: About gun violence in the country, that is the outsider's perspective. And I think that BBC reporter was intentionally trying to make a statement. I  think he very successfully did. This is something else that went viral and  yesterday and it is continuing to get attention today. But it's not just the  BBC, it's not just folks in Britain who characterize America's epidemic of gun  violence this way. President Obama is right when he says this country is  different than other countries. And even some folks on FOX News acknowledge  that.   
BALDWIN: You have a lot to talk about come Sunday morning.   Brian Stelter, thank you so much.    Coming up next, here is a quote for you, nothing short of heroic. That's how the  actions of the police officers in San Bernardino have been described in the wake  of this tragedy. Let's pay tribute to them next.   
 BALDWIN: Before I let you go today let me just say this. I know it's my job as a journalist, but in situations like these I am getting sick of  speaking the words active shooter situation because I have been covering too  many of them. I happened to be sitting in this chair during two crucial hours of  the day when kids happen to be in school and people are at work and when mad  killers tend to strike.    But it's the resiliency of these communities and specifically the law  enforcement whose job it is to protect them what amaze me the most. And in this  case in California hundreds of officers risked their own lives to engage with  these killers and to keep others safe. They are the heroes here.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you're not cool, I'm not walking. Sir. Keep your hands where I can see them.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you. Thank you. Try to relax there. Try to relax. I'll take a bullet before you do. That's for damn sure. Just be cool, OK.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Last count I've been told we have 20 r 21 officers involved in that gun battle with the suspects.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are at San Bernardino and Shedden. I see one guy down, one guy in the back of a car.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just for the update, we have the suspect vehicle stopped. We go ahead and extract him. We can standby. Wait for the bear cat.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Copy.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The chief of the state to say I'm incredibly proud of the way that our folks responded not only the initial response here and the help that we  got from our local and regional partners, but for the way they also engaged in  that officer-involved shooting and chasing down those suspects. That was nothing  short of heroic.       
BALDWIN: Nothing short of heroic. Those are the words from the police chief there in San Bernardino, California earlier today. Heroic indeed. Speaking the  truth.    Thank you so much for being with me here today. Make sure you keep it here on  CNN for continuing live coverage of the aftermath as we are now beginning to  learn the status of the survivors and also learning about these victims, 14  people killed in that center this time yesterday.    Let's go to Washington. "The LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts now.   
