    
HIGHLIGHT: The FBI is investigating the gunman's travel and ties to terrorism.    
 BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR: Brooke Baldwin, and you're watching CNN's special coverage of one of the country's deadliest massacres in our history.    A disturbed husband and wife drop off their little baby, drive to a holiday  party and kill 14 people. Fourteen people whose names we don't even know yet,  some whose bodies still lie where they died. Fourteen people who just showed up  to a work party on what should have been a normal Wednesday with their  colleagues and would never go home, killed at the hands of one of those  colleagues, a sick turn of events that has investigators looking into a possible  act of terrorism.    These killers, Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik, died in a hail of police  bullets, meaning we may never know exactly what drove them to murder. But law  enforcement sources tell CNN that it appears the man may have been, their word,  "radicalized" and communicating with terror suspects known to the FBI.    Standing by we have CNN terrorism analyst Paul Cruickshank. Also my friend and  colleague Poppy Harlow is live for us there near the scene in San Bernardino. So  we'll talk to both of them.    But first let's go to our justice correspondent, Evan Perez, who has more now on  what sources are saying about this gunman's possible ties to terror.    Evan, what do you know?       
EVAN PEREZ, CNN JUSTICE REPORTER: We do know that law enforcement officials do believe that there are indications that Syed Farook was radicalized. Now, they  believe that that could be at least part of the motivation for why this shooting  took place yesterday in San Bernardino. That doesn't explain everything,  however. They still believe that there might be some indication of a workplace  motive. Some kind of workplace beef that - that at least may have triggered or  played a role in what happened yesterday, so some kind of hybrid explanation of  what happened yesterday.    We do know that officials have found indications that he was in touch with and  had communications with one - at least one terrorism suspect. Somebody who was  being looked at by the FBI and that the FBI was already investigating and that  there was some communications over the phone, by social media that are now being  analyzed simply to try to figure out whether or not that also played a role in  this radicalization and in what might have - what occurred yesterday.    We also know that they're looking at some overseas communications. Now, we don't  know whether that indicates that anybody was ordering what happened yesterday to  occur. Again, there's no indication of that yet. We do not know of any  international terrorism links, but, again, that's something that the FBI is  trying to chase down and make sure that they understand exactly how that fits  in.   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: Right.  
PEREZ: Again, the thing that the FBI is trying to make sure they do is not foreclose any of these possibilities. We know that they found, for instance,  some kind of homemade bomb lab. It's - you know, we know that they found a  backpack at the scene of the first shooting, Chris, and apparently he - this is  where he made these bombs. This is something that he had rigged together -   
CUOMO: Right -  
PEREZ: A remote control car and was intended to detonate yesterday and did not happen. We don't know exactly why that did not happen. So, again, these are all  the pieces of the FBI is putting together. Indications of radicalization,  however, is what has moved the FBI and the president to make this an FBI  investigation because there are indications that this is where this is going.       
BALDWIN: All right, so that was Evan Perez, our justice correspondent.   Paul Cruickshank, let me bring you in now, our CNN terrorism analyst here.    And I just want to be crystal clear, when we're hearing that this shooter may  have been considered radicalized, what does that really mean?   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM CORRESPONDENT: Well, it suggests that he had become at some point in some way an Islamist extremist. I think that's what  they're suggesting here, that he was radicalized by this ideology, this world  view that various terrorist groups have been propagating, this distorted  interpretation of Islam, which justifies these kind of acts of violence. I think  that's what we're talking about here, Brooke, when it comes to radicalization.    What is not clear is the degree to which this was - the full part of his  motivation. It appears that there was perhaps a blended motivation here that  this was partly perhaps some kind of personal grudge against colleagues.  Because, after all, he could have gone and shot up a shopping mall or a sports  arena and killed a lot more people, but he chose to target his colleagues, some  kind of blend between that a - perhaps a political objective as well. And we've  seen those blended motivations in the past. We saw that in Oklahoma in September  of 2014 where a Muslim convert, Alton Nolen, beheading a female co-worker at a  food processing plant right after he was fired. And he put bin Laden pictures  and beheadings up on his FaceBook page. And we also saw that blended motivation  in France of June of this year where a transport delivery worker, who had a  grudge against his boss, beheaded his boss and put his decapitated head on the  fence of a chemical plant, which he then tried to blow up -   
BALDWIN: Yes.  
 CRUICKSHANK: And then he took a selfie and sent it to ISIS. So we have seen these blended motivations in the past where it's a little bit of one  and a little bit of the other. That would have seemed to be what we're seeing  here as well.   
BALDWIN: Here is one of the things that scares me, you know, when you hear the police chief talk about the thousands of rounds of ammunitions these two had,  whether it was on themselves, in their tactical vests , in the car, in this home  they were renting, the preparations not - neither of them on anyone's radar. Not  a single one. How do you prevent something like this then?   
CRUICKSHANK: Well, I think there's a very short answer and it is, you cannot prevent all of these kinds of attacks. Very difficult if the person is really  not on the radar screen. It appears, from what we're hearing, that he perhaps  was on the edge of the radar screen because they were aware of some contacts  with people that they had under investigation, but only on the edge of the radar  screen, not a priority part of investigations from the FBI perspective.    But, yes, he managed to get all this - all these weapons, all these ammunition  over the years and that's something that al Qaeda and other groups have been  trying to encourage. They've been saying, take advantage of lax gun laws in the  United States by international standards, go out and buy a gun, the most  powerful weapons you can find and launch as much carnage as you can.    I think also interesting the fact that these pipe bombs, 12 we understand, were  recovered -   
BALDWIN: Right.  
CRUICKSHANK: From his garage. The description of them, sort of a black powder, a gun powder type of powder, is quite similar to what al Qaeda in Yemen, al Qaeda  in the Arabian Peninsula, put out in June 2010 in "Inspire" magazine, "how to  build a bomb in your mom's kitchen." They actually have photos of that kind of  device. The FBI say they're investigating whether he learned how to do this from  that very same magazine, Brooke.   
BALDWIN: That was the exact article we talked about this when we were talking Boston and the Tsarnaev brothers and how they were able to put those pressure  cooker bombs together. It is all at your fingertips on the Internet.    Paul Cruickshank, thank you so much, as always, our terrorism analyst here at  CNN.    Right now, the bodies, as I mentioned a moment ago, the bodies of some of these  victims, they are still inside the scene of that shooting at the Inland Regional  Center in San Bernardino and that is where our Poppy Harlow is not too far from  that shooting location.    Poppy, to you.   
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Brooke, it is chilling to be here, to look at the sign of that building that so many people walked in every day just to go to work.  They were celebrating the holidays yesterday when all of this happened. It is  still, as you said, an active crime scene. Some of those bodies, we're told in  the last police press conference, still have not been removed. And this is  because those forensic teams are combing through, frankly, the carnage inside. A  center that serves people that are developmentally challenged. That is what was  attacked and police talking just a short time ago about what they saw inside.       
CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: The suspects, when they entered, fired somewhere between 65 and 75 rounds from their rifles at the scene. We did  locate the one pipe bomb that was actually three pipe bombs combined into one  that had a remote control car type remote control device that appears to have  not have worked in this case. There were also four high capacity .223 rifle  magazines that were dropped by the suspects and left in there as evidence that  have been recovered.    I can confirm that the suspects were wearing the block-style tactical gear that  we talked about yesterday. They were not wearing ballistic vests, bullet-proof  vests. What they did have and what people may have confused is they had  tactical-style vests that held equipment, the magazines and ammunition.       
HARLOW: At the end of the massacre, the husband and wife team fired up to 75 rounds killing 14, injuring 21 others. And as they did that, hundreds of other  workers heard the echo of gunfire, feared for their lives, feared they may take  the next bullet. They barricaded themselves inside rooms in this building right  adjacent to where I'm standing. They hid under tables. They sent texts and  terrified messages to their loved ones, chilling cell phone video showing the  moment that these people were rescued.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you. Thank you.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Kind of relax. Relax. I'll take a bullet before you do, that's for damn sure. Just be cool, OK.       
HARLOW: As for the people that did not make it out of that building, it has been nearly 24 hours. Still, officials have not released their names. They did tell  us, just moments ago, they will start releasing the victim's names a little bit  later today.  I want to go straight to our Victor Blackwell. He is at  the second crime scene.    Victor, you are right outside of the suspect's home. That is where I was until  very late last night. We saw tons and tons of police vehicles around. But we  have learned so much since then about these 12 pipe bombs, about what our law  enforcement sources are telling Evan Perez and Pamela Brown was something like a  homemade bomb lab in the home?   
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: Yes, and we're seeing some of the work now starting to begin outside the home. The FBI has been here throughout the  morning. But take a look over my shoulder here. Some of the members of the  evidence response team now setting up their canopy and the tables will then be  set up where they start to collect, identify, photograph, process some of the  evidence that comes outside of this town home. We heard from David Boudich,  with the L.A. office, assistant director of the FBI in the L.A. office, that  some of the evidence will have to leave this area to be identified and analyzed  outside of this area.    But, you're right, that discovery of 12 pipe bombs and materials to make more,  in addition to thousands of rounds of ammunition for both the .223 millimeter  ammunition, also a nine millimeter as well for the auto - semi-automatic  handguns. So there will also be the collection of the digital information. We  saw today the regional computer forensics lab workers here collecting  information. We know that they potentially collected the laptops and the thumb  drives and cell phones to find out if there were people outside of this  community, outside of just this family who were part of this attack.    Poppy.   
HARLOW: Victor, thank you very much, again, outside of that home that they lived in before they carried out this horrific attack.    Brooke, I'll send it back to you in New York.   
BALDWIN: All right, Poppy, thank you, standby, we'll be talking to you momentarily.    Meantime, I'll speak with an eyewitness who was working just across the street  right around this time yesterday from that center. Heard the gunshots ringing  out 24 hours ago. We'll talk to him. So much more in the next two hours live  from San Bernardino. Keep it here. You're watching CNN's special live coverage.       
ALAN AYERS, WITNESS: I want to get to the - the center and I was just walking down and this lady and a couple others heard shots. And I heard from over there,  but then I started walking and all of a sudden I got into the chaos and, who  knows, it just, boom, boom, boom, boom. And, you know, I'm just right - wow,  right in the middle of it 
. STEPHANIE BALDWIN, SISTER OF SHOOTING VICTIM: As soonas the gunfire started, everyone dropped down to the floor and they were underneath desks and she was trying to shield herself with a chair with the man  who was next to her. And then all of a sudden she said she just felt it like  going through her back and luckily, you know, the shooters weren't in there for  too long and they were able to get them out of their quickly.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It became all surreal when we had to lock ourselves in the conference room and not get out until law enforcement said that it was OK to  leave the building. I was just in disbelief. I called my kids and said, if  something happens to me, there's a shooting here, just be safe. What else can I  do?       
BALDWIN: What else can I do? Some of the voices we're hearing now in the 24-hours, in the wake of the shootings in San Bernardino, California.    Today we heard from the police chief yet again that apparently the shooters  fired up to some 75 rounds of ammunition. Witnesses nearby could not only hear  those shots, but felt their offices shaking.    I want to bring in Glenn Willwerth. Glenn Willwerth was across the street in an  adjacent office building when he started hearing some of these shots.    Glen, thank you so much for joining me today.   
GLENN WILLWERTH, SHOOTING WITNESS: Sure.  
BALDWIN: You know, it was right around this time yesterday. Can you just begin with, how did you know something was wrong?   
WILLWERTH: Well, it kind of all - it kind of all played out because my office window actually faces the Inland Regional Center. I was in my office and I had  noticed somebody run by my window very quickly. And I didn't know what that was  about and I didn't know what to expect, but I raced up to the front door to meet  the person because I didn't know what was going on. And as soon as he came in, I  saw the - the shear look of panic on his face and he just replied, they're  shooting, they're shooting everybody. So I told - I told everybody to lock down  the building. I told the guy to stay there, everybody to hunker down.    And I - I grabbed my side arm, I holstered it up and I went out towards where  the shooting was coming from. I could - I could immediately hear the shots being  fired. So I started heading towards where I heard the shots coming from. I got  about halfway there as -   
BALDWIN: So you left your building?  
WILLWERTH: Yes. Yes, I have a -  
BALDWIN: So as you're hearing the shots, you're going toward the shots?
WILLWERTH: Yes, that's correct. I've got - you know, I've got employees that all have families. I have my wife in the building. I wanted to make sure, you know,  it didn't travel to - to my location. So I decided to go ahead and set up my own  perimeter.    So I - I kind of hunkered down by a water truck that was filling up at a fire  hydrant, maybe 50, 60 yards away from where the gunmen were shooting. I could  still hear them shooting. So I knew the direction, I knew where they were, but I  couldn't see them. There was a lot of trees. There's a lot of foliage there. But  I knew that the exact area that they were in, because it was very distinct.     So I heard about another 10 or 15 shots go off and then it went kind  of silent. And I saw a lot of people scattering and leaving the area. But  something caught my attention. It was a slow-moving person. But I couldn't  really make them out. They were kind of behind the trees and they just - they  went and got into a black SUV and started to pull away very slow. Not in a hurry  at all. And I immediately thought to myself, whoever just did that is probably  in this SUV right now.    So they - they started to head away. I couldn't see inside the vehicle. I didn't  know one, two, five. I have no idea what was going on. But I did know it was  high powered shots that I was hearing. And all I had was a side arm. So I  decided to stay where I was at.    But they did start to drive towards me. And as soon as I saw that they were  about 25 yards away from me, I unholstered my gun and I did point at them, which  is really irritating to have a gun for over 20 years and never have to do  something like that and you get some people that put you in the position to have  to live with something like that, that's just ridiculous to me. So -   
BALDWIN: Well, OK, so - so hang on -  
WILLWERTH: Yes, the gunmen ended up changing direction and they left the area.  
BALDWIN: So you're telling me, so you never ended up firing at this - at this vehicle? We do know that both of the suspects ended up leaving in a black SUV  and ultimately were killed in a massive shootout with police in a neighborhood.  But as you were there, Glenn, did you talk at all then with the people who had  been just terrified, who were inside of the building, who we watched yesterday  with their hands up trying to seek safety?   
WILLWERTH: Yes, I did speak with some while the van - or while the SUV was pulling away from the area. I was telling everybody to get down and hide behind  cars and everything. But when it changed direction from coming my - towards me  and went away from my building and exited out the rear, I still didn't know  exactly what was going on. So I stayed where I was for a couple more minutes,  two, three minutes until the police arrived.    And then the first police came in and they immediately started helping some  people that were hiding by some - some vehicles and then the second vehicle came  racing in and I - I aggressively flagged him down and made sure he came up to me  and I gave him a description of the vehicle.   
BALDWIN: OK.  
WILLWERTH: And told him I didn't know much about who or what was in it, but gave them the direction they left in.   
BALDWIN: Well, Glenn, I know you haven't even gone home. You have remained at your workplace with another employee. Si I will let you go, but thank you so  much. I don't know if police would love to hear exactly how close you got to all  of this yesterday, but, nevertheless, their heroes were pretty incredible on the  scene yesterday. And, Glenn, I thank you so much for your perspective. I'm glad  you're all right.   
WILLWERTH: Sure. Yes, thank you.  
BALDWIN: Coming up next, we still do not know the answer to the question, why. What was their motivation for this couple to drop off their six-month-old baby  to go on that shooting rampage? Coming up next, we'll talk with someone who has  seen this type of thing before. He actually wrote a book focusing on mass  shooters, their motivations, police training. He will join me next.    I'm Brooke Baldwin. You're watching CNN's special live coverage.   
 BALDWIN: A shooting there in California. Much of it, of course, is about the people, about the victims, and we'll talk a lot about that as soon as  we know more about them. But in the meantime, numbers today, learning new  numbers. Fourteen killed, 21 injured, two shooters. What we don't know is why.  What motivated a man and his wife to drop off their six-month-old baby girl with  a grandmother and end the day and their lives in a shootout with police.    Joining me now is Pete Blair. Pete's a criminal justice professor at Texas  State University and executive director for the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid  Response Training Center at Texas State.    And, Pete, you wrote the book on active shooter events and response. So thank  you so much for joining me today.   
PETE BLAIR, CRIMINAL JUSTICE PROFESSOR, TEXAS STATE UNIVERSITY: Thanks for having me on.   
BALDWIN: There is so much that baffles me about what happened in San Bernardino, but I think part of the top of the list is the fact that not only - it wasn't  just this lone shooter. It was the shooter and it was his wife. It is so rare  you have a female involved in this kind of thing. Nevertheless, a young child  that they had that they dropped off at a family member's home as they went off  on this rampage. That has to surprise you.   
BLAIR: Yes, it is unusual. We have had - seen some female active shooters in the past, but it's a very small percentage, less than 5 percent of all the shooters  that we've seen. The dropping the kid off at the relative's house, that's - I've  never seen that happen before, but it would suggest to me that they felt that  they weren't coming back.   
BALDWIN: When you hear some of the details from the police chief, San Bernardino, today talking about the thousands of rounds of ammunition they had,  the tactical vests, the pipe bombs that were found, the black powder, the  hundreds of tools at the home that could be used to build IEDs, the potential  radicalization, what sort of picture is that painting for you?   
BLAIR: Well, for me, that paints a very premeditated attack. It looks like a terrorist-related event from the radicalization information they're talking  about now. While their - people are talking about there may have been some kind  of incident at the actual party beforehand. It's clear they were planning some  type of event for some period of time in order to have a bomb-making factory and  acquired all the equipment they had with them.   
 BALDWIN: And still, even though perhaps one of their associates  
