    
HIGHLIGHT: The COP 21 summit is being held in Paris today. Today online sales are expected to top 3 billion for the first time; that's up 12 percent from last  year. Cyber Monday is growing but Black Friday is fading; crowds were smaller  this year and more people have moved to online shopping. Chicago police officer  Jason Van Dyke back in court today to learn if he will be granted bail after the  release of that graphic dash cam video, showing him shooting 17-year-old Laquan  McDonald.     
 KATRINA PIERSON, NATIONAL SPOKESPERSON, TRUMP CAMPAIGN: Nobody knows. The problem here is, Mr. Trump saw it on television, several other people saw it  and reported it. There is evidence and record of that happening. Whether or not  he sat there and counted every last individual head, probably not, but it looked  like a lot, just like it did to a lot of people in Jersey and in New York City,  by the way.   
ALISYN CAMEROTA, CNN ANCHOR: Katrina Pierson, thank you. We appreciate getting your perspective this morning.   
PIERSON: Thanks, Alisyn.  
CAMEROTA: Thanks for being on NEW DAY.   We also want to let you know that the last GOP debate of the year is just two  weeks away. It's happening right here on CNN. It will be moderated by our dear  Wolf Blitzer. Mark your calendar. It is Tuesday, December 15th, 9:00 p.m.  Eastern.    Meanwhile, Chris is in Paris for us. Let's get back to him and all of the world  leaders.   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: And all the way from Paris, Alisyn, that stuff about thousands of people, or any number of people cheering as the towers fell, is  still untrue. It's as untrue here as it was back then on 9/11.    Now, what brings us here is 150 world leaders in Paris for the COP 21. The  U.N.-sanctioned meeting on climate change. They are here to figure out how to  make the world a better place. But they're doing it in the midst of abject fear  of future terror attacks.    So, how do you strike this balance between keeping this place safe, this summit  safe, and the civil liberties that have been so strongly embraced here in Paris?  We have a critical discussion when we come back.   
 CUOMO: Big news out of Paris already. President Obama acknowledging the U.S. is partly to blame for climate change. This comes as 150 world leaders  gather here in Paris for a historic week in the battle over climate change. The  summit called COP 21. A massive security operation also underway. France on  virtual lockdown for the summit here.    Let's bring in Melissa Bell, international affairs editor of France 24, along  with French journalist Stefan de Vries. Now you'll remember Stefan. He was one  of the first to arrive on the scene of the "Charlie Hebdo" attacks, been a good  friend of the show.    It's good to have you both. Thank you. Thank you.   
MELISSA BELL, INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS EDITOR, FRANCE 24: Thank you.  
CUOMO: Melissa, I start with you. President Obama says having the summit in Paris specifically is an act of defiance, showing that the humanitarian world  will not be deterred from the cause of freedom. Yet, it is also a great  distraction because how do you focus on climate change when you have 120,000  military and police, an unknown terror networks threat. How do you balance these  two?   
BELL: I suspect it's likely to play in favor of minds coming together in the . And you've seen, as you mentioned, Barack Obama bring it up, but  also the French have this sort of deliberate effort to link the two  presiding over this throughout the next 10 days. France's foreign minister, in  his speech, said the fact that all of you are here, speaking to the 150 world  leaders who gathered, shows that civilization will win out over all that is  barbaric. So there is a certain amount of good will. There is a certain amount  of determination. Defiance is probably the right word, the one that you used as  these leaders go in to this climate conference, with, of course, these  extraordinary security measures all around. But I think that rather than divide,  it will probably unite, whichdoesn't take away of the real  obstacles that these leaders face in trying to sign this very first universal  and comprehensive -   
CUOMO: Tried twice before and failed.  
BELL: They've tried before and failed. And, of course, the big word on everyone's mind but that no one dares speaks is Copenhagen. They do not want a  repeat of this. They what to come out with something. What they will come out  with is, of course, entirely up for grabs. And there are huge divisions between  a number of different countries about precisely what the treaty should look  like.   
CUOMO: President Obama only mentioning the Copenhagen situation in the context of the U.S. making a further commitment since then. He hasn't discussed any  other context.    But here's the thing, Stefan, when you look at the situation here. President  Obama sold the urgency of climate control, let's say, by saying it is the  biggest threat that Americans face. Bigger than terror. It's hard to make that  case right now, especially in Paris, isn't it?   
STEFAN DE VRIES, JOURNALIST: Well, yes. It's hard to make that case because a lot of people don't think with their brains anymore. They think just with their  hearts. And that's exactly the problem. I personally think that climate change  is the biggest challenge we've ever faced as humanity. So terrorist attacks, of  course, they're horrible, but it's nothing compared to what lies ahead of us.   
CUOMO: Why?  
DE VRIES: Because we already see a link between a huge number of refugees and climate change. It's a small link, but it's an important one. We will see far  more climate migrants, as well. So we're not adapted to that. And the climate  change is just killing far more people than terrorism is. And that's maybe a  very harsh truth, but we have to express it anyway.   
CUOMO: So now we're having this conversation in the midst of what happened just two weeks ago. Paris has 120,000 military and police here. There are numbers all  over, 8,000 of this, 3,000 of that. They've locked it down. They've closed the  beltway around Paris, akin to the beltway around Washington, D.C., that we have  in the U.S. So it's basically safe, at least for now. And yet you surrender a  lot in terms of civil liberties under a state of emergency and it's extended for  three months instead of the 12 days that it says in the constitution. People  think it will go beyond that. How do you start to balance the appetite of the  Parisian, of the - of the French men and woman about what's going to happen with  liberty versus security?   
BELL: Well, you saw it very forcefully out on the streets around, where you and I have been speaking for the last couple of weeks. When these -  this - there had been all kinds of planned demonstrations for these 10 days of  this conference to do with the climate. People out on the street calling for  greater action and they believe that these heads of state and government are  going to take inthis week and next. All of them, of course,  canceled by this state of emergency. And yet last night people went out to the  Place de la Republique nonetheless and there were 300 arrests. That's a huge  number. Of course, many of them were sort of die-hard activists that came out to  make themselves known saying, we're against the state of emergency itself. So it  began as a movement of people wanting to make their voices heard on the question  of global warming and it ended up being a movement of a few fairly extreme  radicals against the idea of the state of emergency itself.   
CUOMO: Some bad actors changing the tenor and tone of what supposed to be is a - be a demonstration.   
BELL: And yet it is a real problem. You have to bear in mind that under the state of emergency, more than 20 or so environmental activists were essentially  placed under house arrests. This is proving hugely controversial and it's being  fought in the courts -   
 CUOMO: Before - before the protests they were doneit.  
DE VRIES: Yes.  
CUOMO: But my point is - I take your point, but to take it one step further, how did you let these people come into the Place de la Republique, of all places,  under a state of emergency with all this manpower? You still had thousands out  there last night. What does that say about the capabilities and the balance? DE 
VRIES: Well, there's probably a very simple, logistical reason. Paris is one of the most densely cities - populated cities in the world. So there are people  everywhere. You can't tell them to stay at home. Then you have to set a - put a  police officer in front of every door. Maybe that's something the government  would actually want to, considering what they've been doing the last two weeks.  So it's technically not possible to prevent these kinds of events.    And the demonstration yesterday started as a human chain, which was actually a  smart way to get rid of the interdiction to demonstrate, just people holding  hands. But, unfortunately, it got out of hand. About 200 to 300 people messed  the whole situation up. And apparently it was not possible to contain the  situation before the demonstrations were going on simply because there are  logistical limits to what the police can do.   
CUOMO: Stefan de Vries, thank you very much.   Melissa Bell.   
BELL: Thank you.  
CUOMO: Our hope is that while there is a big development, a big breakthrough on the climate level, that this is a non-event on the security level for this  summit and beyond.    Alisyn, back to you in New York.   
CAMEROTA: OK, we certainly hope that as well, Chris. We'll check back in with you.    Meanwhile, today is the day to hop online and cash in on some alleged great  deals. Will Cyber Monday beat Black Friday? We'll crunch the numbers for you.   
 CAMEROTA: Paging online shoppers. Listen up, Michaela, it is Cyber Monday. It's time for CNN money now. Chief business correspondent Christine  Romans is in our Money Center. Christine, what does Michaela need to know?   
MICHAELA PEREIRA, CNN ANCHOR: What am I buying today?  
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Well, OK, chances are your e-mail inbox is overflowing this morning with shopping deals. Retailers  undercutting each other with steep discounts. It's Cyber Monday. This is  something that was made up out of the blue ten years ago, right, from the  retailers to try to drum up sales after Black Friday. Today, online sales  expected to top 3 billion for the first time. That's up 12 percent from last  year.    So Cyber Monday is growing but Black Friday, it's fading. Now it's still one of  the biggest shopping days of the year, no question. But crowds were smaller this  year. More people have moved to online shopping. They shop throughout the month  instead of waiting for one specific day. Now they're calling it Black November  instead.    So Michaela, here are the three things you need to know this morning. Don't buy  anything that's less -- It has got to be 30 percent off or more. You got to have  to have free shipping. Unlimited returns.   
PEREIRA: But of course.  
ROMANS: Keep your standards high, folks.  
PEREIRA: It's not my first Cyber Monday. All right. Thanks so much, Christine.   The Chicago police officer charged in the deadly shooting of a teen is about to  find out if he'll be allowed to make bail. We'll hear from the attorney for  Laquan McDonald's family next.    But first, this Sunday, we pay tribute to the CNN Heroes of 2015. Here's a look.       
ANNOUNCER: Our heroes don't fly, they soar.  
ANDRA DAY, MUSICIAN: And I rise up, I rise like the day. I rise up...  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't see barriers. I see solutions.  
DAY: I rise unafraid, I rise up...  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Connecting with the communities along the way helps reestablish your faith in humanity.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Love you.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Love you, too.  
DAY: And we'll rise up...  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Don't give up on yourself because you're still worthy.  
ANNOUNCER: See the stars come out to celebrate the change makers.  
KATHY GRIFFIN, ACTRESS & COMEDIAN: We all love to pay tribute, and this is the way we really can.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:people who are living the work that they're doing every day.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's going to be really, really inspiring.  
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to CNN Heroes.  
KELLY RIPA, TALK SHOW HOST: Please join me in honoring CNN Hero --  
MAGGIE DOYNE, CNN HERO OF THE YEAR FOR 2015: There's no time to waste.  
ANNOUNCER: The top ten CNN Heroes of 2015.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's an honor to be recognized.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is an amazing honor.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you!      
ANNOUNCER: Join Anderson Cooper for "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute," Sunday, December 6th at 8:00.       
 CAMEROTA: Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke back in court today to learn if he will be granted bail after the release of that graphic dash cam  video, showing him shooting 17-year-old Laquan McDonald.    Joining us now is the attorney for Laquan McDonald's family, Jeffrey Neslund.  Mr. Neslund, thanks so much for being here.    The general public is just learning about this case because the videos were just  recently released. But this happened a year ago and Laquan's family has been  dealing with this loss for a year. You have been trying to investigate, to  figure out what happened. What led up to this shooting? I know that one of the  things that you did was you went to the Burger King that is seen in a little bit  of the dash cam video. Laquan ran in front of a Burger King. You went there to  get their surveillance footage. There was 86 minutes that were apparently  missing from their surveillance video. What do you believe happened to that  video?   
JEFFREY NESLUND, ATTORNEY FOR LACQUAN MCDONALD'S FAMILY: Well, I believe what we were told by the Burger King employees. We spoke to the manager, the employees  that were there that night, the district manager, and they have all told us, my  partner, Mike Robbins and myself, that police came into the restaurant shortly  after the shooting, demanded access to the video system, and the next day when  the district manager came to look at the footage, it was gone. It was deleted.  So I take them at their word.   
CAMEROTA: What do you think would that video, if it were there, would reveal?  
NESLUND: Well, there's no doubt it wouldn't show the actual shooting. The shooting happened just south of the Burger King. But it would have shown the  events leading up to the shooting. The chase through the parking lot, the chase  in front of the restaurant, and it would have shown the police interaction with  witnesses in the drive-through after the shooting 
. CAMEROTA: This officer, as weall know, has been arrested. He's been charged with murder. Laquan's family did get a substantial settlement from the city.   
NESLUND: Right.  
CAMEROTA: Obviously, they don't want him to make -- the officer to make bail today. But beyond that, what does his family want to see happen?   
NESLUND: They would like to see the officer prosecuted to the full extent of the law. And you have to understand, this family is still grieving. They're in shock  over all of this. And I know they want, not just the shooter, but in my opinion,  everyone responsible who tried to cover this up or tried to justify what cannot  be justified, should be held accountable.   
CAMEROTA: and by that, you mean the police superintendent?  
NESLUND: Well, I'm not going to get into political finger pointing. I don't think there is any doubt this could have been handled differently. If you really  want to have transparency and accountability in your department, if you want to  build trust in the community, this could have been and should have been handled  differently.   
CAMEROTA: The police union is standing by Officer Van Dyke. In fact, they're paying for his attorney. His attorney was on CNN last week, on Erin Burnett's  show, and gave what he says was the rationale for the shooting. Let me play that  for you.       
 DANIEL HERBERT, ATTORNEY FOR CHICAGO PD OFFICER JASON VAN DYKE: And when he jumped out of the car, the subject made a motion which put my client in  fear that this individual was perhaps going to attack him with a knife.       
CAMEROTA: Mr. Neslund, it sounds like that's what they will say during the trial, that he felt in danger. What's your response?   
NESLUND: Sure. Well, I -- first, let me say, I've known Dan Herbert a long time. He's an excellent attorney and I'm sure he'll do a great job for his client. But  that said, you cannot justify this shooting. The idea or suggestion that my  client was threatening anyone, from 12, 15 feet away, is ridiculous. And then  once he's on the ground and he is shot repeatedly, that's nothing but first  degree murder, in my opinion.   
CAMEROTA: OK. Jeffrey Neslund, thank you for your perspective. Obviously, we will check back in with you as this case progresses. Thanks so much for your  time on NEW DAY.    And thanks so much for watching us today. "NEWSROOM" with Carol Costello will  pick up right after this quick break. See you tomorrow.       
CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now in the "NEWSROOM" --  
UNIDENTIFIED OFFICER: Shots! I'm under fire, I'm shot. I'm hit!  
COSTELLO: After the Planned Parenthood shootout, what we're finding out about the victims. An Iraq war vet, a mother, a police officer killed. And what we're  learning about the suspect.   
