    
HIGHLIGHT: Tashfeen Malik, the female shooter in the Wednesday massacre that left 14 dead and 21 wound, posted a pledge of allegiance to the ISIS leader Abu  Bakr al-Baghdadi while the shooting was happening. A UPS facility was evacuated  after a driver discovered a package addressed to one of the San Bernardo  shooters. in his weekly radio address, President Obama says he's actually been  preparing for a threat like the San Bernardino shooting. Federal and local law  enforcement officials across the country are actively training for terror  scenarios. A new breed of first responder is appearing, a hybrid of soldier and  doctor.     
 VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: And we're getting this as we are now getting a new picture of one of the attackers, Tashfeen Malik. She posted as you  know a pledge of allegiance to ISIS on Facebook, while she went on a killing  spree with her husband. Authorities say the killers tried to destroy all digital  material that could be used as evidence and planned this shooting very  carefully, making pipe bombs and storing more than 5,000 rounds of ammunition in  their condo.    Plus, we want to talk about this UPS facility that was evacuated after a driver  discovered a package addressed to one of the people. The normally peaceful  community of San Bernardino, California, is on edge, of course, after 14 people  were killed in that attack, 21 people injured.    CNN, of course, is covering this from every angle. We are starting with Polo  Sandoval. He is live in Redlands, California, in front of their condo where the  two lived.    And, Polo, let's talk about this investigation and to what level it's developed  this morning.   
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, I can tell you, Victor. This latest development in this investigation is really going to give added reason for  people. Not just in this community to the keep a close on this story, but really  from across the country with this possible ISIS link.    If authorities are able to confirm that possible link, that would be a very  significant development. It would make Wednesday's attack here in San Bernardino  the deadliest on American soil really linked to a terrorist group overseas since  9/11.    But then you hear from the family of Syed Farook speaking through their  attorney, saying, well, they still want solid undeniable proof from the Feds  that their loved one was radicalized.       
SANDOVAL: San Bernardino on edge. Overnight, police evacuated a UPS facility and called in the bomb squad to investigate a package addressed to the  home of Syed Farook. It turned out to be safe, posing no threat. This comes as  the FBI announces that the mass shooting is now being investigated as an act of  terrorism.   
JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: We are spending a tremendous amount of time, as you might imagine, over the last 48 hours trying to understand the motives of these  killers and trying to understand every detail of their lives.   
SANDOVAL: Another recent revelation about Tashfeen Malik, the female shooter in the Wednesday massacre that left 14 dead and 21 wound, she posted a pledge of  allegiance to the ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi while the shooting was  happening.    A mass shooting may have been inspired by ISIS, but the terror group apparently  did not district or order the attack. It may be a case of self radicalization.  The possibility that's left family members baffled.   
SAIRA KHAN, SISTER OF SYED RIZWAN FAROOK: I've asked myself if I had called him that morning or the night before and asked him how he was doing, what he was up  to, if I had any inclination, maybe I could have stopped it.   
SANDOVAL: Meanwhile, police are downplaying the possibly that Farook appeared angry when he suddenly left the holiday luncheon at the Inland Regional Center,  only to return heavily armed with his wife.   
CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: We had initial information from a witness or some witnesses that left the party and provided information that it  appears he left upset or under some form of duress. There is also indication  from other people that he was there. There was nothing out of the ordinary and  then suddenly he was gone.       
SANDOVAL: Back out live to the doorstep of Farook's home, I can tell you that there is still a heartbreak mixed with healing mixed in this community. People  are still talking about Wednesday's shooting this morning. Obviously, you see  behind me, Victor, that reminder of what happened here, that particle board has  been put up since you had an opportunity actually to see inside, what the  situation actually look like.    But what's interesting from our vantage point, you can still see through the 2nd  floor window, the ceiling fans slowly rotating, a computer screen office, while  very ominous scene that will greet people this morning as they wake up here in  San Bernardino.   
BLACKWELL: All right. Polo Sandoval for us in Redlands, California -- Polo, thank you so much.    All right. Let's talk about the investigation now. We have with us our CNN law  enforcement analyst Art Roderick and CNN military analyst, Retired Lt. Col. Rick  Francona.    I want to start with you from ISIS, calling these you point out a distinction  between supporters and fighters. LT. COL. RICK FRANCONA, CNN MILITARY 
ANALYST: Yes, they're making a difference. They've labeled the people that participated in the Paris attacks as actual members of the organization and  called them fighters. What they're calling these two are supporters, which is  kind of a lesser level, which means they're supporting the organization but not  actually directed by, which leads us to the conclusion, probably inspirational,  not so much being directed.   
BLACKWELL: But from ISIS' perspective, this was a success. And they want to get some of that glob on to that. Why create the distance?   
FRANCONA: Well, they want to take credit for it. I think they realize saying this might be directed as a leap too far, because that's going to be proven not  to be true.   
BLACKWELL: OK.  
FRANCONA: So, they want to take advantage as they can. And, of course, they have been showing themselves to be adept at social messaging.     So they know what they can get away with.   
BLACKWELL: All right. Let's talk about this UPS facility. We talked about the driver who had the presence of mind to return to the facility after seeing the  address, but this package being en route after the attack, does that give you  any or lead to you any conclusion that maybe this was not the event they were  initially planning to attack and they at the last minute made this decision?   
ART RODERICK, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, I mean, it could be a couple things. Number one, great for the driver to pick this out. You know, you see a  package addressed to an individual that just committed this horrendous act, I  mean, the first thing that comes to my mind are there other explosives in it,  you know? What was in the package? I think that's going to be key to figure out.  You know, it could have been Christmas gifts for all we know, something for the  baby.    But, you know, the key to this is going to be, OK, what was in the package?  Where was it ordered from? Who sent it? You know, when was it actually supposed  to be delivered we're in the holiday season now. Packages are being backed up a  bit. Great for the driver, you know, they should have actually got out of the  vehicle and called 9/11 at that point.   
BLACKWELL: Yes, we do know that it was rendered safe. So, we got that from the bomb squad.    I want to know as we are learning more about Tashfeen Malik -- from your  perspective, is this a case of, you know, as one of our analysts called it last  night, a black widow. She radicalized her husband or do you believe if they were  radicalized from a far together?   
FRANCONA: That's what we have to find out. That's going to be fairly easy to find out. Once they go through and find out who they've talked to, who their  contacts were, and that's why it's very important that they get those cell  phones and they get that computer hard drive, because from that, they can build  a network of their contacts.    And then they'll be finding out, how did they get radicalized? Who are they  talking to? And I think one of the important thing is like Google searches and  who, what kind of Web sites were they on?    You know, in the past, it generally has been the male that has been radicalized  and brings the female along. But when you look at her behavior, you really have  to wonder how deeply she was in this.   
RODERICK: And her backgrounds, where she came from, where she has been. I mean, Pakistan born, in Saudi Arabia. I mean, it seems logically that she would be the  one.   
BLACKWELL: And to travel here with that motive when she came over in 2014.  
RODERICK: Exactly.  
BLACKWELL: We will continue the conversation throughout the morning. Thank you both.    More now about Syed Rizwan Farook, described as a shy, quiet man, a devout in  his faith. But then something changed. Two men who attended the same mosque  spoke to CNN's Don Lemon last night about that shooting.       
GASSER SHEHATA, ATTENDED MOSQUE WITH SYED RIZWAN FAROOK: We are totally shocked. We don't understand it. We can't put the numbers together.    If we have to guess, we think something happened in the last maybe months or two  months maximum. He stopped coming to the mosque four weeks ago. We haven't seen  him. But again, we are not surprised because he doesn't live in San Bernardino.  He lives in Redlands and used to go to Riverside.    He only came to our mosques because his work, he was expecting rest in San  Bernardino. So whenever he had this lunch break, he would come to pray with us.  And that's the only prayer we see him and he would come about two to three times  a week.    Now, what happened, I don't know. We are more inclined to believe he had some  argument or a fight in his work than to think that this has anything to do with  religion.    I go to the mosque all the time. I'm really regular, is what you call. I can  tell you that all of us are extremely kind. We care about everybody, regardless  of their religion. We actually learn the opposite of hatred.    We learn -- our religion says to love others, respect others. If you see someone  in harm's way, we have to, it's a part of our belief is to go and help them and  get them out of harm's way. So there is no radical organization in San  Bernardino or any of my Muslim brothers who pray at the same mosque. I know all  of them. None of them think like that.   
RAHEMAAN ALI, ATTENDED MOSQUE WITH SYED RIZWAN FAROOK: Of course, if we were to know he was like this, we'd be the first to report it to the authorities about  him.   
SHEHATA: Absolutely.      
BLACKWELL: Of course, this is now categorized as a terror investigation. But the shootings here in San Bernardino had reignited the gun control debate as well.  We'll talk about the new push to stop people from buying weapons or explosives  if they are on the no fly list.    Also, just a basic question. Is America safe? President Obama says we are, but  with terrorists striking on U.S. soil, has the U.S. grossly underestimated ISIS'  reach?   
 BLACKWELL: New this morning, "The New York Times" making history by putting an op-ed on the front page of their paper. It focuses on gun violence in  America.    In it they write, and here's the quote, it is a moral outrage and a national  disgrace that civilians can legally purchase weapons designed specifically to  kill people with brutal speed and deficiency. America's elected leaders offer  prayers for gun victims and then callously and without fear of consequence  reject the most bake restrictions on weapons of mass killing.    This op-ed comes on the heels of calls by lawmakers for new gun control  measures. Among them, baring people on the no-fly list from purchasing a gun.    CNN's Rene Marsh has more for us this morning -- Rene.       
RENE MARSH, CNN AVIATION AND GOVERNMENT REGULATION CORRESPONDNET: Well, Christi, we're taking a closer look how many people on terror watch lists have been  cleared to buy guns and whether laws to stop it from happening would have  prevented the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California.   
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, NEW YORK: Enough. Enough. Enough.  
MARSH: A predictable refrain. The gun control debate reignited a bloody attack in San Bernardino, California, now increased urgency to stop  suspected terrorists from buying weapons.   
SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN, CALIFORNIA: The bill is the definition of a no-brainer. If someone is too dangerous to board an aircraft, they're too  dangerous to buy a gun.   
MARSH: The proposed fix, using terrorist watch list, including the no fly list that stops suspected terrorists from boarding planes to also be used to ban  weapons. Since 2004, there have been more than 2,200 checks for people on terror  watch lists.     About 91 percent of the transactions were approved. Under current  federal law, a person cannot be prohibited from possessing firearms or  explosives, simply because the individual appears on the terror watch list.    However, a felony conviction or illegal immigration status can disqualify  someone.    Hours after the massacre, President Obama pushed for change in the country's gun  laws.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We have a no fly list, people can't get on planes but those same people who we don't allow to fly could go  into a store right now in the United States and buy a firearm.   
MARSH: But such a law would not have prevented the mass shooting in San Bernardino. Neither killer was on the terror watch list. They didn't even have  criminal records, and Syed Farook legally purchased at least two of the guns  used in the massacre.   
JOHN LOTT, PRES., CRIME PREVENTION RESEARCH CTR.: Not one of these mass public shootings that the president has spoken out about during his administration  would have been stopped or affected in any way by any of the laws that he is  pushing.   
MARSH: Critics say individuals wrongfully placed on the terror list would be stripped of their constitutional right to own a gun.   
: While the FBI cannot stop the purchase, they are made aware when someone is on the terror watch list and has been cleared to buy guns or  explosives. Now, the FBI learns about that plan to use those weapons in an  attack. At that point, they do have the power to block the sale. They've done it  before.    We should point out: legislation has been proposed in both the House and the  Senate to prevent people on the terror watch list from purchasing guns. But it's  gone nowhere in Congress -- Christi.       
CHRISTI PAUL, CNN ANCHOR: Rene Marsh, thank you so much. We appreciate it.   You are watching CNN NEW DAY, our live coverage from San Bernardino, California,  continuing. We're going to have a conversation about the changes police officers  and law enforcement around the country are having to make in order to be able to  deal with the growing threat of terror. Some of the changes you're going to see.  Others, not so much. Stay close.       
 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have to be honest with you, man, like, Illinois we just passed a conceal and carry. I have been thinking, man, do you want to be  in a situation where you don't have protection? I know that's not how I was  raised, but I'm thinking like, it might be time. Seriously.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm not scared because I believe in Jesus. I believe in God. I believe that he's going to take care of us. And I believe that the  government and our president has everything in control.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's threats everywhere, and I think everyone has got to be aware of general surroundings. No, I haven't changed my travel habits. I  haven't changed any of my day-to-day.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You know, it was really disheartening. At this point, it's like what, I feel like I can't do anything as one person and there's all this  gun violence and stuff like that.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's still shocking because you wish like there's good people out there. But you still got to live your life every day, so I don't  think I'm going to change my plan.       
PAUL: I'm wondering if any of those words are resonating with you because we know so many of you are having these conversations about safety, about gun  control. About ISIS as you sit in your living rooms and around the kitchen  table. And you all fear for yourselves and your family and wondering, how are  you going to stay safe? Especially when we hear some of the things we are  hearing, in fact, we now know, for instance, that one of the shooters apparently  pledged allegiance to ISIS.    Well, in his weekly radio address, President Obama says he's actually been  preparing for a threat like this.       
OBAMA: It is entirely possible these two attackers were radicalized to commit this act of terror. And if so, it would underscore a threat we have been focused  on for years, the danger of people succumbing to violent extremist ideologies.       
PAUL: Here's the thing: this attack in San Bernardino came on the very day the president told PBS, and I want to quote here, "ISIS will not pose an existential  threat to the U.S."    CNN's Chris Frates is here to talk more about what else the president said and  how it's being received, Chris.   
CHRIS FRATES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, good morning, Christi.   So, the news of the attacks may have been inspired by ISIS, only fuels  Republican criticism that President Obama's strategy to defeat the terrorist  group has failed, Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio said despite  Obama's arguments to the contrary, ISIS is not under control.       
SEN. MARCO RUBIO, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Because the other individual, the husband, was a U.S. citizen, born in the United States, lived here his  entire life, had never, ever, ever done anything radical or strange that caused  anyone to be suspicious of him. Never would have shown up on any database. Never  would have shown up on any background screening. Never.    And then within a matter of months, not just becomes radicalized, but goes from  being an average every day person into a killer on behalf of this cause that  I've just described to you. We have never faced the threat like this before.       
FRATES: And, Christi, as you pointed out, Obama has worried publicly for years by about the possibility of an attack by a lone wolf that was a self  radicalized. And because, you know, law enforcement will tell you, it's  incredibly tracking terrorists working in isolation. And on the day of the  attacks, but before the possible ISIS link was discovered, Obama again  downplayed the threat ISIS poses.       
OBAMA: ISIL is never going to pose an existential threat to us. They are a dangerous organization like al Qaeda was but we have hardened our defenses. Our  homeland has never been more protected by more effective intelligence and law  enforcement professionals at every level than they are now.       
FRATES: But even before the massacre in California, Americans express doubts about Obama's strategy. A survey out last month found more than half of those  polled disapproved of how the president has handled the issue.    And, Christi, you know, that's not a good sign for the president, particularly  as his administration comes to grips with what could be the biggest terrorist  attack in America since 9/11 -- Christi.   
 PAUL: Good point. Chris Frates, thank you so much. We appreciate it.  
FRATES: Thank you. PAUL: So what happened in California, a lot of people think that can happen anywhere. See how federal and local law enforcement officials  around the country are preparing to take on and take out would be terrorists.    Also, he's part doctor, part tactical officer. Dr. Sanjay Gupta introduces us to  the doctor whose arms to both save lives and protect them.   
 BLACKWELL: Welcome back to NEW DAY.   This morning, we have several new developments about the San Bernardino  shooting. ISIS is now speaking out about the attack, calling killers, quote,  "supporters". The shooting spree has made people of San Bernardino jittery, on  edge. UPS facility was evacuated after a discovery of a package addressed to the  killer's condo.    And, of course, we are learning more about the two killers. We've been getting a  new picture of the female shooter, Tashfeen Malik, pledge of allegiance to ISIS  leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi on Facebook we know about. Also, a co-worker said  she was responsible for radicalizing her husband Syed Rizwan Farook. You'll hear  from that colleague. Could the massacres that happened in California happen in  another state in the U.S.?    Federal and local law enforcement officials across the country are actively  training for this kind of nightmare scenario.    CNN's Nick Valencia has a look now at how Atlanta is preparing for an attack  like this.    Nick, good morning.   
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Victor.   If the shooting in San Bernardino taught us anything is that a terrorist attack  can happen anywhere at any time. We caught up with the FBI and others to see how  they are preparing and spreading awareness.       
VALENCIA: It is terrifyingly realistic. But this is only a drill.   The simulation a part of active shooter training at a Georgia high school.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get on the ground!  
BRITT JOHNSON, FBI ATLANTA, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: I think the thing that keeps us awake at night is what we don't know and if we're missing something.   
VALENCIA: FBI Atlanta field office head Britt Johnson says a shooting can happen anywhere at any time and without warning.   
JOHNSON: Quite honestly, I do things, drills, my kids, we go to the mall. I have conversations about then, about what do you do if you start to hear gunfire? I  mean, these are tough conversations, but you need to be having those  conversations with your kids.   
VALENCIA: In 2015 alone, there have been more than 350 mass shootings according to data from shootingtracker.com. It categorizes mass shootings in any incident  where at least four people are injured or killed, including the shooter.     Preparing for a shooter inside a school, considered a soft target, is  Sam Shartar's job.   
SAM SHARTAR, EMORY UNIVERSITY: The reality is, many things in our society are a soft target. So, we can't stop living.   
VALENCIA: Shartar works at Emory University in Atlanta, keeping students and staff prepared for the worst case.   
SHARTAR: Run and get away from the scenario, if you can, if you can't hide and barricade yourself in a place where it's substantial. If you can't hide to  protect yourself and others fight with aggression.   
VALENCIA: It was two weeks ago that security was enhanced outside of Philips Arena in Atlanta, after an alleged ISIS threat against a wrestling event. Those  we spoke to outside WWE's Survivor Series decided to show up anyway.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Things are going to happen no matter what. You can't live your life in fear.   
ARSLAN BHATTI, WWE SPECTATOR: What I'm going to say is run, run as fast as you can.   
VALENCIA: Law enforcement officials say everyone should consider a safety plan before something actually does happen. A 2014 study by the FBI found most active  shootings and in five minutes or less.    After Paris, the French government handed out these posters, printed on them,  instructions on how to escape or hide during a terrorist attack.   
BRITT JOHNSON, FBI ATLANTA, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: Our ability to know what's going on out in the community every day is diminishing. We're relying on the  public even more every day.   
VALENCIA: But for those that survived the shooting like Aileen Torres in San Bernardino, there is little that can be said or done to stop the fear.   
AILEEN TORRES, WITNESS TO SHOOTING: We're not eager to go back to work. You know, to know that some of our friends are gone, and to know that massacre  happened in the next building. It's just -- it's not, you don't feel safe.       
VALENCIA: A lot of people don't feel safe unfortunately in speaking to the FBI, there is absolutely no way that you can be 100 percent prepared for if and when  a terrorist attack does happen. Victor, they say their biggest fear is self  radicalization.    In conversations before, between terrorists like those associated with al Qaeda,  the FBI says it was more easy to intercept those communications. Now that  propaganda is out there. ISIS does not want the main street communication. They  say it's harder to track down those self radicalizing out there right now --  Victor.   
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: All right. We will talk about that right now. Nick Valencia, thank you so much.    Also with the shooters reportedly in this tactical gear using assault rifles,  police had to move in with heavy machinery to respond to the San Bernardino  rampage. Yet, that's exactly the kind of equipment that was criticized in  response to protests last year, especially as you see here in Ferguson,  Missouri. The former police chief of St. Louis County says that gear is crucial.       
TIM FITCH, FORMER POLICE CHIEF, ST. LOUIS COUNTY: There's a reason why we asked for the equipment. All the equipment was purchased in the early 2000s right  after September 11th is becoming obsolete. It needs to be replaced. Now, the  money is not there to replace that.       
BLACKWELL: All right. So, let's talk about the self radicalization element and the difficulty of identifying those people and this equipment. We have with us  Montgomery County Maryland police chief, with us, Tom Manager, also we have with  us, Cheryl Dorsey, retired L.A. County --   
CHERYL DORSEY, RETIRED LAPD POLICE SERGEANT: LAPD.  
BLACKWELL: L.A. police sergeant. Sorry for that.   Let's talk first with you, Cheryl, about the equipment, because that was  criticized in Ferguson. Now, let's point out the distinction, that was used in  protest of civilians. They were used this week against terrorists who were  killing inside the IRC.    But what's your view on the need for those and I guess training on when to use  hose?   
DORSEY: Obviously, the equipment that was used this week was necessary.   And so, as a police officer, we always want to have the position of advantage.  It's a little different when you are going against protesters versus potential  terrorists. So, it was appropriate and necessary. And also, it's important the  officers have an opportunity to train with that equipment. So, when and if it is  needed, because this is not something that we do every day, but when and if it  is needed, then are you prepared to move an act in a way that's familiar and  that you can get the job done quickly.    And we saw that. We saw the success that the officers had here in San Bernardino  when they were able to quickly apprehend the suspects.   
BLACKWELL: Tom, there was that executive order from President Obama to end the transfer of certain types of equipment from the Pentagon to local law  enforcement. Do you think that was a mistake?   
CHIEF TOM MANAGER, MONTGOMERY COUNTY, MARYLAND POLICE: Well, I'm not sure -- yes, I can.   
BLACKWELL: OK.  
MANAGER: Most large agencies have those kind of vehicles, and I think as long as we are using them appropriately. And, really, there's two reasons to use those  vehicles. It's to get officers from point A to point B when it's not safe to be  in that area. And there is also, they need to be used to recover injured  individuals.     We've, in fact the primary use for these vehicles is to recover  injured and folks that have -- they're in a location where it's not safe to be.  You know, we all I think cringed when we saw the photo of the officer in that  armored vehicle in Ferguson, pointing a rifle at protesters.    I would say 99 percent of the police agencies that have these vehicles are not  -- certainly did not use them in during lawful protests. We use those vehicles,  we have three of them in our police department, we use them to get our SWAT  officers into a location where there is an active shooter, where there is a  threat of an explosive device, where we have injured folks in area where it's  not safe for police or fire rescue to go in and get them.   
BLACKWELL: So, let me discuss with both of you. We are hearing statements from the FBI, having been with local police, and you in Montgomery County, you are  directly with the people every day. They may not see FBI agents every day. And  we are hearing from the president on down, see something, say something. If the  FBI in this case didn't see anything that elevated these two to an investigation  of any type, what should people who are not trained be looking for?   
DORSEY: Well, you know we heard one neighbor who saw something unsettling about the two shooters. But she opted not to say anything, she thought she would be  racially profiling. So, I think it's important for the public to err on the side  of caution. If you see anything, no matter how insignificant, report it, and  then allow the authorities to give that information, the import that they think  it deserves.   
BLACKWELL: And, Tom, that is a real fear, that you don't want to seem racially profiling. This woman, we've heard from the neighbor, I heard that same  discussion, that she saw something that made her feel uneasy. What's the line? I  mean, what kind of advice can you give people?   
MANAGER: We are currently working with the school system. We're working with the faith community. We're working with the mental health community to educate them  about what the red flags are. And, of course, none of those red flags involve an  individual's race, their ethnicity, their religion.    We're looking at and we're trying to teach the community to look at behaviors.  And when you see someone who begins talking about some radicalized behavior,  when you see someone who is obsessed with guns. When you see someone who's  displaying --   
BLACKWELL: But these two didn't talk about that at all. I hate to jump in, Tom. But these two didn't talk about anything.   
MANAGER: And those are the ones that are the most difficult to detect. Those are the ones I think that we're always going to have are real difficulty in  identifying before they actually do something.    You know, right now, what worries me the most is the fact that there is a  certainly a feel by many members of the public and by legislators that are  making it more difficult to monitor these activities. We're trying to weigh an  individual's privacy with the responsibility to detect the activities these  folks are engaged in. I'm not sure that we found the right balance yet. And, in  fact, the pendulum has swung to the point where there are activities and things  that folks can do now out of the reach of law enforcement.    And that's never, it was never like that before, but because of things that come  to the public attention, because of Edward Snowden, now the pendulum has swung  to the point where privacy advocates have been able to secure means for folks to  be able to hide a lot of what their activities are on the Internet, what they're  doing, you know, over their phone and you know it's difficult.    Now, it makes more difficult for law enforcement.   
BLACKWELL: Yes, and through social media.  
MANAGER: I understand the need for the right balance and the need for privacy for individuals, but we got to find that balance. It's making it more difficult  for law enforcement.   
BLACKWELL: Yes, for Farook and Malik, they didn't have to communicate with anybody else. We only saw the FBI making public now that posting while the  shooting was happening.   
DORSEY: Right. And while we understand that law enforcement officials have guidelines, policies and procedures that they have to follow, the public is not  held to that same standard. So, I think it's imperative for neighbors and  friends and family if you hear something, if you see something, to certainly  something.   
 BLACKWELL: All right. Cheryl Dorsey, Tom Manager, thank you both. All right. One of the first responders in the mass shooting carries bandages and  assault rifle. Up next, meet the so-called SWAT Doc who is trained to protect  himself while saving lives.   
CHRISTI PAUL, CNN ANCHOR: Mortgage rates dropped for a third straight week. Here's your look.   
 BLACKWELL: Last night, hundreds of people turned out for a candlelight vigil at UC-Riverside campus near San Bernardino to honor the 14  people who lost their lives on Wednesday's attack. The community mourning.    And this is happening as the FBI has announced that it's taken the lead on the  investigation, calling this an act of terror.    And the U.S. is grappling with what may be the worst terrorist attack on  American soil since 9/11. Think about that.    A new breed of first responder, though, is appearing, a hybrid of soldier and  doctor. And chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta has this story.       
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Before any other member of his team arrived on the scene of Wednesday's bloody massacre, Dr.  Michael Neeki was already there just minutes after the shooting began.   
DR. MICHAEL NEEKI, ARROWHEAD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER: From airway to quickest stapling of the ruin in the field, to Israeli bandage, which is a compression  dressing.   
GUPTA: He's a new kind of first responder, a hybrid, a soldier, a doctor and a member of the SWAT seem, ready to defend as well as save lives.   
NEEKI: A good guy should be able to defend himself and also help everybody else.  
GUPTA: In order to do that, not only does he need to carry his medical equipment, but he has to carry a gun as well. A gun much like the one used by  the shooters.   
NEEKI: Well, you know, I don't want to get hurt. If somebody really have an intention like that, yesterday, where he was indiscriminately shooting everybody  and I'm the first one that gets there, the active shooter responds, I want to be  able to defend myself and, you know, those civilians on there.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shooter's ready?  
NEEKI: Ready, sir.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Move.  
GUPTA: That's Dr. Neeki on the right.      
GUPTA: Today, just one day after the shooting, we followed Dr. Neeki to this training facility.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shooter's ready?  
NEEKI: Ready, sir.      
GUPTA: This is another part of being a brand-new sort of doctor, going through training like this, with other members of the SWAT team to try to  make sure he can defend himself in situations where he is taking care of other  patients.   
NEEKI: We are now going to the assault rifle injury-type pattern, which rips and shreds apart organs in your body, tissues in the body, vessels as they're going  through.    Even our tactics are changing right now for law enforcement. Rather than going  sideways, now we go to the front to expose less organ injuries better than --   
GUPTA: It's interesting. So instead of going like this --  
NEEKI: If you go through sideways and a bullet comes through, it goes through both lung and heart basically and come to the other side. If you go from the  front, now you have a platethat protects your heart. If it hits one other  lung or the other, you could still be functional.   
GUPTA: That's fascinating, because you always see people approaching in the lower profile.   
: Dr. Neeki grew up in Iran and served in the military there. So, guns and combat aren't new to him. He never thought he'd have to use those  skills in America.   
: Did you ever think your experiences in the Middle East will be useful here in San Bernardino?   
NEEKI: I never in a million years. But now that I'm here, you know, this is one of my duties. It's a privilege to work here. It's a privilege to be a part of  this team to serve the community out there. It's the least I could do.   
GUPTA: Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CNN, San Bernardino County, California.  
BLACKWELL: Wow, thanks to Sanjay for that.   We will have much more coming up, live from San Bernardino in just a moment.    Plus, the U.S. running out of bombs to drop on ISIS. A report on what's behind  this dwindling supply of bombs, in just a moment.   
 PAUL: Fifty-three minutes past the hour.   And take a look at this picture. This is the newest image of San Bernardino  shooter Tashfeen Malik. She and her husband Syed Rizwan Farook killed 14 people  during that shooting rampage. And officials say she pledged her allegiance to  ISIS via Facebook.    Well, this morning, ISIS is calling these two supporters and say they are  praying for the, quote, "martyrs."    And other headlines that we want to apprise you of this morning, after almost a  year and a half of bombing ISIS targets, more than 20,000 bombs dropped. The Air  Force says they're running out of munitions. In a statement, an Air Force  official says it could take up to four years to stock up again. They said more  funding is needed to get started.    And Freddie Gray did not get the help he needed when he asked for it. And when  he did, it was too late. That is the latest from prosecutors in the first trial  of a police officer involved in Gray's death. The 25-year-old died of a broken  neck in police custody earlier this year.    Former Patriots tight end Aaron Hernandez in trouble again. This time caught  with a shank, a homemade knife in his prison cell. Serving a life sentence for  murder, he's now moved to a separate part of the prison after being involved,  apparently in several fights.    Now, coming up at the top of the hour, breaking news overnight in San  Bernardino, California, a delivery man noticed he was delivering a package, can  you imagine, addressed to one of the San Bernardino shooters which prompted an  evacuation of that UPS facility.    Also, just as we see the image of the female gunman this morning, ISIS says the  California killers where its supporters and praising their actions.     We have much more live from San Bernardino.    But, first, CNN Heroes salutes ten people who put others first all year long.  It's an all-star tribute airing tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m. Eastern.    And Michaela Pereira has a sneak peek for it.       
MICHAELA PEREIRA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It is a night of glitz, glamour and giving.    "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute" hosted by Anderson Cooper, puts ten everyday  people in the spotlight, saluting them for their help for helping others.   
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: It's a great nice. It's nice that people who don't ordinarily get this kind of attention, you know, get this kind of attention.   
PEREIRA: On this special night, the stars turn out to honor them.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When we can celebrate heroes and heroic actions, that's the right thing to do.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a real honor.  
PEREIRA: This year is amazing. Honorees include a surgeon who serves Chicago's poorest.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The biggest, boldest, bad ass doctor.  
PEREIRA: And a woman who turned her home into a sanctuary for sloths.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The woman that proved sloth is a virtue.  
PEREIRA: It is a night of passion.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is like the air that I breathe so I can't stop.  
PEREIRA: Laughter.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Were you scared of Sharon Stone? I felt like you're a little scared of her.   
COOPER: I love Sharon Stone.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I know, but there's fear in your eyes.  
COOPER: I'm scared of you.  
PEREIRA: And inspiration.      
PEREIRA: It's a celebration of humanity, with a little help from a special guest, but ends in one life changing moment.   
COOPER: 2015 CNN Hero of the Year --      
