    
HIGHLIGHT: Suspect at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, California identified a Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik, possible married or in some kind of  relationship. Two gunmen, possibly a third, opened fire during holiday party,  killing 14 and injuring 17 people. Britain parliament approved launching  airstrikes against ISIS in Syria after 10-hour debate. In Redlands, California,  police continue to be searching a home that's actually been linked to Syed  Farook, the suspect who was named a short time ago, officially, by authorities  in Wednesday's mass shooting event, and now they have been running a robot  through the town house looking for possible explosive devices, and at least 14  people were killed, 17 others were wounded in the shooting earlier on Wednesday  at that crowded holiday party and police say it may have stemmed from an  argument at that party, and two suspects, 28-year-old Farook and a 27-year-old  woman named Tashfeen Malik are dead, killed in a shootout with police. The  suspects in the San Bernardino shooting have been identified and authorities  have named Syed Farook, a county employee, and Tashfeen Malik, as the shooters,  and they say Farook abruptly left a holiday party at the Inland Regional Center  before the shooting and they believe Farook and Malik later returned killing at  least 14 people, wounding 17 others, and Farook and Malik were killed hours  later after a chase and a gun battle with police and they were armed with  assault rifles and a handgun, according to law enforcement authorities. Breaking  news, Swiss authorities are conducting raids and arresting multiple FIFA  officials in Zurich, and justice officials from Switzerland are working at the  behest of the U.S. Justice Department on this side of the Atlantic.     
 ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.  
ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello. And thank you for joining us. It is
10:00 p.m. here on the U.S. West Coast. I am Isha Sesay in Los Angeles.  
JOHN VAUSE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I'm John Vause live in Redlands, California. You're watching CNN's breaking news coverage of a mass shooting at a  California conference center.    Let's get the very latest details right now. This is the deadliest mass shooting  since 20 children were murdered at Sandy Hook Elementary School three years ago.  And this is what we know right now. 14 people are dead. At least 17 others  wounded. Many critical, after several people opened fire at a social services  center. A large crowd had gathered there for an end of year holiday party.    A law enforcement official says one of the suspects was at that party. He's been  identified as Syed Farook, a county health inspector. He apparently got into  some kind of argument. He left the party and then returned with two other  people. And that is when the shooting began. Just a few hours later, police got  into a shootout with the suspects who were in a black SUV. One male and one  female suspect were killed. A possible third suspect is now in custody. Police  say they were all dressed in assault style clothes armed with handguns and  assault rifles.    Now this is the audio of police talking with dispatchers as the shooting took  place.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK, last seen in the alleyway headed towards school. Do we have a clothing description?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Male, dark-skinned is all I have on this frequency.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You can get that and --  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In order to have them go there. We need more people here unless it's the SWART team. That's it.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What is your exact location?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're at San Bernardino and Shedden. San Bernardino and Shedden. We can see one guy down, one guy in the back of the car.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just for the update, we have the suspect vehicle stopped. Please go ahead and extract it. We go stand by, wait for the bearcat.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Copy.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right now we have one down outside the car. One down inside the car -- or one we don't know. Hold on. And from what we understand, one is on  the run.       
VAUSE: That shooting happened at a conference center adjacent to the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino. It cares for people with developmental  disabilities. The campus is about an hour east of Los Angeles.    And here's what we know about the suspects. Syed Farook, multiple law  enforcement sources have told CNN he is an inspector with the County Health  Department who abruptly left the event at the Inland Regional Center before the  shootings happened. The sources have told us the residents which police are now  searching here in Redlands is connected to Farook. He is believed to be an  American citizen. However, we do not know if he is one of the two suspects  killed in a shootout with police. His brother-in-law spoke with reporters a  short time ago.       
FARHAN KHAN, SUSPECT'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: I just cannot express how sad I am for, you know, what happened today. My condolences to, you know, the people who lost  their life. I am very sad that, you know, people lost their life. And there's  victims of -- I wish speedy recovery to them. And again, I am in shock that  something like this could happen.       
VAUSE: Farhan Khan there, the brother-in-law of Syed Farook, speaking just a short time ago.    And we are still now waiting on yet another police news conference. They've been  holding these regularly, bringing us new information each time the authorities  have come out to talk. We're expecting that news conference to get under way at  any moment. And when that happens, we will bring it to you live. But in the  meantime, let's bring in correspondent Poppy Harlow for more on what's actually  been happening here at Redlands. Not too far away from where the initial  shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center.   
POPPY HARLOW, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right. VAUSE: OK. So, Poppy, we know that the police, the authorities, they came out to this townhome here. What was the tip?  How did they connect the dots here?   
HARLOW: The tip was the name. The name we now know.  
VAUSE: Right.  
HARLOW: And that is Syed Farook. Obviously they had that name hours before the media got it, and it became public.     Someone gave them that name. Why? Well, we know that he worked within  the community that was having the party at the center today. That name was tied  to the home half a mile from where we're standing, 10-minute drive or so from  where the shooting took place. Did he own the home, just live in it, just rent  it? We don't know.    What we do know is that when authorities were there trying to make the  connection, a big black SUV drives by, John, very slowly, and as soon as the  people driving it see the authorities, it races away. That leads to a police  chase. What ensues is a shootout.   
VAUSE: Yes.  
HARLOW: With a woman driving, who's now dead, a man shooting out of the car, fake pipe bombs flying out of the car. And now those two people are dead. But  what's really key here, the fact that we know Syed Farook's name. Who is he? Was  he in that car? Is he the third person they've detained? Is he on the run? We  don't know.   
VAUSE: We suspect many of the answers could well be inside the property.  
HARLOW: Right.  
VAUSE: Which they're trying to get into to search.  
HARLOW: Right.  
VAUSE: Why is it taking so long for the police to actually get into that building?   
HARLOW: It's taking so long because they -- a lot of noise around here. Because they don't want to lose any lives if there should be an explosive inside.  Someone who's armed. They did find a device at the center where the shooting  was, that may be an explosive, that they're using a robot to take apart right  now. They're doing the same thing inside. They've sent one or multiple robots  into the home to search for any explosives. If they find them, they can do a  controlled detonation. They've done that in the past. But they're not at this  point as far as we know sending any bodies, any officers inside.   
VAUSE: And there's obviously real concern here because they've -- what? They've evacuated the immediate area.   
HARLOW: Yes. VAUSE: And they keep pushing us back on a number of occasions. Yes.  
HARLOW: They keep pushing us back time and time again. Now we're a half mile away. Before we were quite close to the home.   
VAUSE: Yes.  
HARLOW: They have evacuated the immediate neighbors. So on all four sides of this townhome. And then the rest of those in this neighborhood have been told to  shelter in place. Again, there's no reason for them to rush, they feel. They're  being very, very careful. The question is, who owned this home, did they rent  it?   
VAUSE: Poppy, I have to drop you, sorry.  
HARLOW: Yes.  
VAUSE: So let's go to the news conference with the authorities here in San Bernardino.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're standing on the sprinkler there.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. Yes.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sorry, everything fell apart with the sprinkler.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thirty, 29, 28, 27, 26 --  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. Yes.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You guys ready?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're ready. Let's do it.  
JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE CHIEF: You guys moved these on me, didn't you? OK. Once again, my name is Jarrod Burguan. J-A-R-R- O-D, last name  B-U-R-G-U-A-N. Thanks for being patient. We -- thanks for being patient. We had  initially planned on doing this about 9:00. We had some information that really  started coming about 9:00. We wanted to vet that information, really get it  established to come out and give you guys some better information.    So as you all know, we're here because of a shooting that we had, a mass  shooting that we had at the Inland Regional Center just up the street here.  Latest count is we have 14 people that are confirmed dead. We have 17 people  that are wounded. Initial information was 14, that number is now 17. That is  wounded. I don't know the status of the wounded. In terms of numbers that are  serious or critical or what that is at this point. And then afterwards, we had  an investigation. One of the tips that we were following up on took us to a  house in Redlands where we made contact with a suspect vehicle that we were  looking for. That resulted in our pursuit, which ultimately came back into the  city of San Bernardino. And on San Bernardino avenue between Richardson and  Mountain View Avenue, that pursuit terminated. There was an officer involved  shooting. Last count, I've been told that we had 20 or 21 officers that were  involved in that gun battle with the suspects.    The two suspects that were in that car are both deceased. And I have their  names. First one has been identified as Syed, S-Y-E-D, Rizwan, R-I-Z-W-A-N, last  name, Farook, F-A-R-O-O-K. He is 28 years old. I am told that he is U.S. born.  The person that was with him is a female, she is deceased as well. Her name is  Tashfeen, T-A-S-H-F-E-E- N, last name Malik, M-A-L-I-K, she's 27 years old. I do  not have any additional information on where she's from at this point.    The reason and how we came across that, and I'll just kind of talk about the  investigation a little bit. I'll talk about the investigation a little bit.  There was some questions you guys asked in earlier press conference about a  person that had left the meeting angry. This was a meeting, Christmas party type  event, that was taking place with several county employees at the Inland  Regional Center.     Mr. Farook is a county employee. He works with his title as an  environmental specialist in the Public Health Department. Has been employed  there for five years. He was at the party. He did leave the party early under  some circumstances that were described as angry or something of that nature.  That is the information that we were following up on when we encountered him  back near this residence in Redlands which led to the pursuit and  officer-involved shooting. And as we've now confirmed, he is one of the  deceased.    A little bit about the response that we had, some questions that were asked  earlier. From the time that we received our first 911 call, of a shooting taking  place inside the residence, or inside the business, the Inland Regional Center,  to the time the first police unit arrived on scene was four minutes. Almost  immediately, after our arrival, we had multiple units arriving and they  immediately entered the building, as I said, responding to an active shooter  type situation, where they encountered victims, and they were in search of the  suspects. Multiple, multiple teams of officers were going into those various  buildings in doing that.    From the time that we were able to start extracting those victims, which was a  few minutes after we had cleared the first rooms, and where we found the  victims, to the time we actually -- from the time we extracted them, got them to  the triage center just outside of the business, where they were treated by  paramedics and then transported to the hospital was about 15 minutes. So it was  fairly fast for a situation such as this. So with that, any questions?       
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: What is the relationship between the two dead suspects?  
BURGUAN: I have done -- we have gone back and forth between information that they were married, or that they were engaged. But there was a relationship. I  don't have it definitive as to exactly what that is now.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: The gentleman that you're holding now in questioning, how does he fit into this?   
BURGUAN: You know, I've not been able to get an update as to whether or not that person was involved. As I said before when the officer involved shooting  occurred, the initial officers that we had information from did not see anybody  specifically fleeing the vehicle. It was other responding vehicles that saw this  person running away from the scene, stopped him and detained him. For that  reason, we don't know if he was involved, or what his involvement is at this  point.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: What is the motive at this point?  
BURGUAN: So we initially put out that we had information that there were upwards of three shooters. Right now, as we continue to drill down on information, and  the witness statements that we have, it really looks like we have two shooters.  And we're pretty comfortable that the two shooters that we believe went into the  building are the two shooters that are deceased up on San Bernardino Avenue.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Do you know how many places you've searched this far? And what connection do those?   
BURGUAN: So we have this crime scene. We have the crime scene up on San Bernardino Avenue. We have a house in Redlands, which is where the pursuit  originated, where our information took us to. That's being actively worked as  well. And as I said, Mr. Farook was a county employee. So we have obviously  secured his office space in case that has any component to the investigation.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Is there a residence? Is that a residence of his?  
BURGUAN: He is on -- it is a residence listed for him. I don't know if he was living there.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: What was the motive then? What's the motive?  
BURGUAN: We don't have the motive at this point. And I'm really being careful, because we all know that when these types of things happen, we've seen this  happen time and time again, there's a lot of information that comes out in the  first day, and the first couple of days, and that information changes  significantly in the days that follow. So until we know the motive, or we really  have a clear -- something clear evidentiary based on that motive, I just don't  want to weigh in on that right now.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Where are they from?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Chief, have you ruled out terrorism at this point? Is that still on the table?   
BURGUAN: We have not ruled out terrorism.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Chief, is there any evidence --  
BURGUAN: So I'm sorry.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:supervisors were killed?  
BURGUAN: Either boyfriend-girlfriend or husband and wife, something of that nature.       
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Were the supervisors or bosses killed in that shootout there?   
BURGUAN: So I have indicated early on that we have victims at the scene. Up until -- within I would say the last couple of hours, we have been working on  what we felt were explosive devices left at the scene. We confirmed that we  believe that those were explosive devices. I think about an hour or two ago, the  bomb squad finally disposed of those particular items. So we are just now  getting in there and starting to process the crime scene per se. I don't have  the identification on any of the victims at this point.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Do you know what precipitated the --      
BURGUAN: I don't know what precipitated it.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Any arguments at the event itself?  
BURGUAN: I don't. I don't know.      
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Can you say that --  
HARLOW: We lost it.  
 VAUSE: OK. We obviously have some technical issues there with the news conference from the authorities. But before we lost the signal, some very  valuable information coming from the chief of police there for San Bernardino.  The big news, of course, they now believe that there are only two shooters  involved in the shooting at the IRC, the Inland Regional Center there, which  left 14 people dead.    The other news coming out of that press conference held a short time ago. Syed  Farook, have confirmed his identity. We've been reporting that for quite some  time now. 28-year-old. He is dead. He was killed in a shootout with police. He  was in that SUV, which was involved -- which was riddled with bullets by  authorities. 21 police officers involved in that shooting. Also, in that vehicle  with him, Malik, the other woman there, 28 years old. As to her nationality at  this point, there is no clear word on if she is a U.S. citizen, or if she comes  from someplace else.    As to the relationship between the two, the police chief said there is some kind  of relationship. They're going back and forth whether they were married. That is  yet to be confirmed. But there was certainly some kind of relationship there  between the two of them. But of course, the big news is that there are two  shooters involved in this. The third suspect, it's still unclear if he was or  she was involved in some kind of way.    We've got a link back up now. We've sorted out our technical problems. Let's go  back to the news conference.   
BURGUAN: I did. The woman's name is Tashfeen, T-A-S-H-F-E-E-N, last name Malik, M-A-L-I-K, 27 years old.       
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Do they have a criminal record on either one of them?  
BURGUAN: I personally have not been in contact with them. We are in contact with a number of family members. So they are being interviewed. But I don't know what  their statements have been.       
BURGUAN: I don't have any information on criminal records.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Do you have any idea how much time elapsed between the time Mr. Farook left the event and then returned?   
BURGUAN: Not the exact time. I've been told -- I've been given figures anywhere from 10 minutes to half an hour. I don't know if that's true yet.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Was the woman present at this event as well?  
BURGUAN: I have not been told that.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Chief, was this a planned out event or a spur of the moment that happened after an argument at the party?   
BURGUAN: I think that based upon what we have seen and based upon how they were equipped, there had to have been some degree of planning that went into this. So  I don't think they just ran home, put on these types of tactical clothes,  grabbed guns and came back on a spur of the moment thing.       
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Were they saying anything during the shooting?  
BURGUAN: We don't have information that they said anything.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Any additional --  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Chief, is there anything --  
BURGUAN: We don't have a motive at this point.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Was there anything -- any connection to ISIS?  
BURGUAN: Sorry?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: ISIS. Is there any connection?  
BURGUAN: We're still searching that motive component of it. We do not have information on that. And I'm not going to weigh in on that part.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: It's a tough time for the city. What's your message to the residents as they go to sleep tonight and wake up tomorrow to this really  ?   
BURGUAN: So the message not only for the city, but for this entire region is, we understand people are scared. And we understand that there's concern that there  may be more folks out there. Rest assured we are doing everything we can. We  have brought every single asset to the table that we have available in the city,  in this county, in the state, and with the help of the federal government to do  everything that we can to make people safe here.    If we get information that we think that there's another potential threat or  something that people need to be concerned about, we will put that information  out to protect people.       
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Do you think that there others involved?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:situation at the Redlands home?  
BURGUAN: That is still an active investigation down there. And we are not far enough into that investigation that I'm comfortable putting anything out about  it yet.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Is it believed that the female suspect --  
BURGUAN: We have indications -- I don't know where exactly they lived. We have multiple addresses for them. One of the addresses was the Redlands. I don't know  if they were living there, or for some reason it was just something that they  had listed, or if it was another family member's. I don't know that yet.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Chief, are you aware of suspect Farook was invited to this party? Asked to the party originally? Or just showed up spontaneously?   
BURGUAN: It is my understanding that he is a county employee that was part of the party, or the event that was taking place, and he had attended the same  event last year.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: This was a party, not a training session? BURGUAN: I am told it is both anywhere from a meeting, to kind of a Christmas meeting  gathering luncheon that this county office was having.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Is there any evidence his job was in jeopardy?  
BURGUAN: I don't have any information on that.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Chief, the explosives that were found, were they pipe bombs, were they propane tanks, were they complicated devices?   
BURGUAN: I don't know exactly. I think we're leaning a little bit more towards like a pipe bomb type design. But specifically what it was made of, I don't have  that right now.   
 UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Did law enforcement have any previous interaction with the suspects?   
BURGUAN: Not that I'm aware of.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Any indications of otheror accomplices?  
BURGUAN: We're still working that angle and reaching out to any and all contacts and folks that they may have had. That's still part of the ongoing  investigation.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Any other weapons? Any other weapons or explosive devices?   
BURGUAN: I gave you everything we had in the vehicle.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Is it possible that the same?  
BURGUAN: What's that?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BURGUAN: I can't understand you.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: I mean the --      
BURGUAN: At some point we will render the area a little more safe. And we will compress the crime scene down, and at some point we will allow the media in to  get, you know, some closer shots of the building. But until we're at that point,  I'm not willing to do it now. I would imagine maybe sometime overnight, or  sometime tomorrow, we can start to compress that down for folks.       
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Were some pipe bomb type devices found in the vehicle?
BURGUAN: There was a device that was identified as that. We've rendered it safe. And I don't believe that was explosive in nature.       
BURGUAN: Folks, real quickly. I'm going to wrap this up. We will -- I do not know if we will have an additional press conference tonight. We have been  talking to staff. We will probably come back out and address the press very  early in the morning to address at least the East Coast morning news shows and  stuff.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Are there 20-some officers involved in that, how are they holding up tonight?   
BURGUAN: I think our department is stretched pretty thin, obviously. We're a decent sized department. And you know, we can bring a lot of assets to the  table. But something of this nature has stretched us pretty thin. We would not  be doing nearly as well if it wasn't for our partners in the county, the  sheriff's department, the other agencies that are here to help, as well as the  state and federal assets that are here.    The officers involved, for the most part, are doing OK. They did their job quite  frankly, if anybody heard that on the radio, that was flat-out heroic what they  did, when they tracked down those suspects and engaged them. We did have one  officer that was wounded. He is resting at a hospital tonight. He is expected to  survive and his injuries are not life-threatening.    Thank you, folks. Appreciate it.   
VAUSE: We've been listening to the very latest news coming from the authorities here in San Bernardino. Just to clarify exactly what we have heard then, we now  have a better idea of exactly what took place here in San Bernardino earlier  today. According to the chief of police here, Syed Farook is the man who is  believed to have carried out this shooting. He was at that holiday party. He  left that holiday party angry. He was a worker here with the county. He then  came back with a woman believed to be either his girlfriend or his wife,  Tashfeen Malik. They then left in that black SUV.    We do know that Farook's office, he's a government employee, county employee, is  also being searched. As for motive, they say they still don't have one. But  clearly, according to police, there was planning involved. This was not a spur  of the moment thing, according to the chief of police.    We'll continue to cover the breaking news of this mass shooting here in  California. We'll have a lot more after a very short break. The latest  developments in just a moment.   
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello, I'm Rosemary Church at CNN headquarters.    Swiss authorities are conducting raids in Zurich on multiple FIFA officials. We  expect U.S. authorities on Thursday to announce new charges in connection with  the corruption scandal engulfing football's world governing body. FIFA president  Sepp Blatter is not named in the new charges.    Breaking news into CNN. Britain has conducted its first airstrikes on Syria by  bombing an oil field in the eastern part of the country. British lawmakers voted  in favor of the campaign against ISIS on Wednesday after a lengthy debate. The  attack comes after France asked the U.S.-led coalition to bump up the military  offensive against ISIS.    And CNN's Ian Lee joins us now on the phone from Istanbul with more.    So, Ian, these British airstrikes in Syria, they came very quickly after  Wednesday's vote. What more do we know about these raids?   
IAN LEE, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, we know, Rosemary, that at least two British tornado fighters took off from a Royal Air Force base  in Cyprus, where they're stationed. And this really did come hours after  lawmakers voted in favor of it after a 10- hour debate. The vote was about  two-thirds, roughly, in favor of this action.    These airstrikes are taking place. They're the first time that British -- that  UK planes have acted inside Syria. You may remember back in 2013, when the  parliament voted down action in Syria. But this new wave of action is coming  after those deadly attacks in Paris.     Limited details have been given so far on these airstrikes. We also  know that they will be performing surveillance as well as missions to bomb ISIS  targets. But we're hearing that the -- just the beginning of these airstrikes,  targeting ISIS in Syria.   
CHURCH: And Ian, of course, we remember when a similar thing happened in Russia, when approval came, and then we heard about the airstrikes that followed, and  the Russians held detailed briefings about what was hit. The targets. Would we  expect the same thing to come from Britain in the hours ahead?   
LEE: Yes, we should expect detailed briefings. We should expect to see more information come out from the British authorities. We've received this from not  only the Russians, but also the Americans. We talk about the targets, what  targets they're going after. And we're hearing that this is all being  coordinated with the Americans, these airstrikes. The targets are also -- the  Americans are helping to provide those as well as they come up.    This is all part of the broader coalition going after ISIS, with the French  joining it, striking ISIS in Syria as well after those attacks in Paris. And  we're expecting to get more information as the day progresses, Rosemary.   
CHURCH: All right. Our Ian Lee reporting there on the line from Istanbul in Turkey. Bringing us up to date on these first airstrikes that were approved by  the British parliament on Wednesday. And just hours later, those airstrikes were  extended from Iraq into Syria, and of course, the targets are ISIS.    And we will continue to follow that. We return now to CNN's breaking news  coverage, the San Bernardino shootings.       
BRANDON HUNT, INLAND REGIONAL CENTER EMPLOYEE: These people give their heart and soul to this agency. The audacity for people to come out here and just want to  shoot it up is insane.       
SESAY: You are watching CNN's live breaking news coverage of a deadly shooting at a Southern California conference center. I'm Isha Sesay in Los Angeles.   
VAUSE: I'm John Vause live in Redlands, California. Now authorities have identified the suspects in the San Bernardino shootings. They've named at least  one of the suspects as Syed Farook, a county employee, and Tashfeen Malik, as  the shooters. The police chief says they were either married or boyfriend and  girlfriend, confirming there was some kind of relationship between the two.    Police say Farook abruptly left the holiday party at the center before the  shooting. He said he left angry and then he came back. And at least 14 people  were shot dead, 17 others were wounded when he came back and returned with  Malik. And then opened fire.    Hours after that, Farook and Malik were killed after a chase and a shootout with  police. They were armed with assault style rifles, as well as handguns.  Authorities say they've also detained a possible third suspect. But at this  point, according to the San Bernardino police chief, they say they are confident  that they have just two shooters involved in this incident earlier today that  left the 14 people dead.    At this point, though, they are still searching for a motive. But the police  chief said clearly there had to be some planning involved in all of this. In his  words, this was not a spur of the moment thing -- Isha.   
SESAY: Indeed, John, there is still a lot we do not know. But reaction is pouring in to today's event. U.S. President Barack Obama is again calling for  more gun control reforms after the mass shooting. Speaking to CBS News, he said  Congress should work together to close loopholes including one that lets people  buy a gun even if they're deemed too dangerous to fly.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: There are some steps we can take, not to eliminate not every one of these mass shootings, but to improve the odds  that they don't happen as frequently. Commonsense gun safety laws, stronger  background checks. And, you know, for those who are concerned about terrorism,  you know, some may be aware of the fact that we have a no-fly list where people  can't get on planes, but those same people who we don't allow to fly can go into  a store right now in the United States and buy a firearm and there's nothing  that we can do to stop them. That's a law that needs to be changed. (END VIDEO  CLIP)   
SESAY: U.S. president speaking to CBS News a little earlier. You are watching CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles. We're going to get you back to Redlands,  California, for the latest on the mass shooting investigation after a quick  break. Do stay with us.   
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.      
 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's too many shootings. Too much bad stuff going on here. We hear about it. This is insane. This is crazy. Literally. I  mean, they need to do something.       
SESAY: Yeah, everyone trying to make sense of today's events.   You're watching CNN's breaking news coverage of a mass shooting at a California  conference center.    It is just past 10:30 p.m. on the West coast of the United States. I'm Isha  Sesay in Los Angeles.   
VAUSE: I'm John Vause live in Redlands, California.   Right here, police continue to be searching a home that's actually been linked  to Syed Farook. He is the suspect who was named a short time ago, officially, by  authorities in Wednesday's mass shooting event. Now, they have been running a  robot through the town house looking for possible explosive devices. At least 14  people were killed, 17 others were wounded in the shooting earlier on Wednesday  at that crowded holiday party. Police say it may have stemmed from an argument  at that party. Two suspects, 28-year-old Farook and a 27- year-old woman named  Tashfeen Malik are dead. They were killed in a shootout with police.    CNN's Kyung Lah has been following these developments in San Bernardino.    Kyung, we now have a lot more details from the authorities about exactly what  led up to this shooting. So just talk us through the details. We've now heard  from the authorities how this all fits together.   
 KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We're certainly getting a narrative, a bit more of the story that happened throughout this horrific shooting. We had  heard bits and pieces from the witnesses, from relatives who had been texting  with people who were inside this building.    It all began, according to the police department, when Farook appeared to be  angry at the Christmas party. This was a Christmas party of county employees at  an auditorium next to the IRC. The IRC has an auditorium that they lease out.  And there was a holiday party there. He became angry. He left. When he came  back, he came back with, we don't know if he had the guns on him at the party,  but what we do know is the gunfire started at that point. It is a little unclear  exactly how many shooters were inside, if it was just him, or it was Malik at  the time of the shooting. But what police say is that they were able to trace  them to the house at Redlands, and then there was that pursuit, and then they  died in a gun exchange with police. Some 20 police officers that were involved  in that gun battle between these two suspects and law enforcement. They had two  long guns, A.R.-15 type weapons, according to the ATF, as well as two handguns,  and a lot of ammo, according to the ATF. We're getting a little more detail  about those weapons. The ATF telling us that two of the firearms trace back to  the suspects. And we're getting some details from my colleague up in Washington,  D.C., that two of the firearms trace back to one of the two deceased suspects.  As far as the other two, they are tracing back to at least one person who isn't  a suspect shooter. And the authorities are seeking to interview the person who  purchased the weapon. John, we should mention that the two weapons they did  trace back to the deceased shooter, those weapons were purchased legally.   
VAUSE: Kyung, thank you. Kyung Lah live this hour. We appreciate it. Thank you.   Joining me now is Hussam Ayloush, the executive director for the Los Angeles  chapter of CARE, the Council on American Islamic Relations here, live in Los  Angeles.    Thank you for being with us.    Clearly right now, everybody is searching for a motive in all of this. I know  that you have come out and condemned this attack, but clearly you've spoken to  the family. We've heard from Syed Farook's brother- in-law. What more can you  tell us?    HUSSAM AYLOUSH, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, COUNCIL ON AMERICAN ISLAMIC RELATIONS, LOS 
ANGELES CHAPTER: Well, I mean, of course, we don't know the motives. And the family is devastated, like all Americans today. Filled with sorrow and mourning.  And we express on their behalf their heart-felt condolences to all the families  of the victims injured and killed. And just pray for whoever's responsible to  pay the price for it. The family is devastated. Like all people. And this is a  time for us to express solidarity among all of us Americans, in rejecting  whatever the motives might have been. You know, there's absolutely no  justification for such horrendous behavior.   
VAUSE: Have you had a chance to speak at any length with the family of Syed Farook, and if there was any indication -- I mean, we heard from the  brother-in-law, that no one expected this. He just spoke to him a week ago. What  else has the family been saying to you?   
AYLOUSH: I spoke with them. They're as shocked as anybody else. They had no clue that this could happen. They -- you know, this is a case, the suspect is  married, has a 6-month-old baby. You wouldn't expect -- you have no reason what  made him snap. It just is a workplace related? Is it mental illness? Is it some  twisted ideology? It's really unknown to us. All they can do now is just share  with everybody's sorrow and prayers, that this is over quickly, and that the  pain and suffering of all these families is eased.   
VAUSE: You were very quick to come out and hold a news conference. Even had Syed Farook's brother-in-law there to talk about this. Explain to me why you took  that action?   
AYLOUSH: Well, because we're living in a very difficult time. There's a lot of Islamic phobia there. Fueled by pundits here and there, trying to blame a whole  community for the acts of the few. Again, we're just mourning as a nation after  what happened in Colorado Springs, by someone who is also responsible for his  act. Not the Christian community, not the American community. The same thing we  felt there was a need for our fellow Americans to know that all American Muslims  share with the rest of the country our sorrow today, our shock and our agony for  what happened. It is important for the family. They wanted to make sure that the  people know how they felt, how devastated they are. And they insisted to being  here. Although they're going through their sorrow as we speak now. They drove  all the way to be at the office and speak to fellow Americans and say, we are,  today, we're all victims today. We stand united in our sorrow, and the only way  we can come through this is through our solidarity.   
 VAUSE: We shall leave it there.   We appreciate you being with us. Hussam Ayloush, the executive director of the  CARE and Council for American Islamic Relations in Los Angeles. Thank you for  being with us. We appreciate that.   
AYLOUSH: Thank you.  
VAUSE: Take a short break here. When we come back, truly frightening moments in San Bernardino on Wednesday. After a short break, we'll hear from witnesses who  took shelter at a school for the blind right across the street from where the  shooting happened.   
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.  
SESAY: Hello, everyone. You are watching CNN breaking news coverage of a deadly shooting at a California conference center.    I'm Isha Sesay in Los Angeles.   
VAUSE: I'm John Vause, live in Redlands, California.   Now the suspects in the San Bernardino shooting have been identified.  Authorities have named Syed Farook, a county employee, and Tashfeen Malik, as  the shooters. They say Farook abruptly left a holiday party at the Inland  Regional Center before the shooting. They believe Farook and Malik later  returned killing at least 14 people, wounding 17 others. Farook and Malik were  killed hours later after a chase and a gun battle with police. They were armed  with assault rifles and a handgun. That's according to law enforcement  authorities. I want to bring in Cedric Alexander. He's CNN's law enforcement  analyst, and also the public safety director for DeKalb County in Georgia. He  joins us from the CNN Center in Atlanta there.    Cedric, thank you for being with us.    Obviously, a lot of people want to have that question answered, why? What is the  motive in all of this? Walk us through how you think authorities here will go  about trying to work out the motive.   
CEDRIC ALEXANDER, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: John, this is a still evolving investigation. And in as much as a lot of information has been learned over the  last several hours, there's still a lot left to be determined in this particular  case. As you heard the chief say earlier in the press conference, he is  determined to get to the bottom of determining what the motive is. But at this  point, it could be a variety of things. So I think we have to accept that  narrative at this point, because it's perplexing, confusing, unusual as this  whole event unfolds throughout the course of the last 12 hours, there's still a  lot yet to be determined.   
 VAUSE: A lot of people are making the point that clearly the events that happened after an argument at a holiday party go way beyond what would be a  normal reaction for a dispute between work colleagues and end of year party. So  at least in your assessment, there has to be something more to this than simply  angry words at a staff party.   
ALEXANDER: Well, certainly. I mean, if you look at the fact that they left, he came back, the weapons he was armed with, and the fact, too, as well, the number  of people that were injured and killed. This was a horrible, horrible crime. And  this is more than just one or two people having a falling out at a Christmas  party. This is something much more in-depth than that. And it's certainly,  without question, there was some planned organization to this attack that  occurred. So rather this argument was started with some really intent of coming  back. But it's just very perplexing. But I'm pretty certain, in my experience,  John, that this was a staged event, and they knew that they were going to come  back and do harm to people.   
VAUSE: The police here have said there was clearly a lot of planning involved in all of this. And I think you've echoed that point as well. Does that indicate  that others were involved? Or do we just have the two people right now?   
ALEXANDER: Well, I think here again, we're still early in this investigation. Even though it has progressed along and we've learned more over the last few  hours. There could be others involved, we still don't know yet if a third person  was involved. And we also don't know if others were part of the planning as  well, too. But I think as the investigation continues, we're going to learn more  over the next few hours, and into tomorrow, and the following day as well, too.  But I would guess, in my experience here, again, tell me, John, that there may  have been others involved. And certainly may have been in the planning of this.  But that is yet to be determined through this ongoing investigation. And we need  to allow the chief, and his investigators, give them the support they need, but  allow them the opportunity to really get to what the motive behind this attack  may have been.   
VAUSE: OK. Cedric Alexander, thank you, sir.  
ALEXANDER: Thank you.  
VAUSE: Our law enforcement analyst there at the CNN Center.   A short break here on CNN. Much more of our breaking news coverage after this.   
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, I'm Rosemary Church. We're following other breaking news. Britain has conducted its first air strikes on Syria by bombing  an oil field in the eastern part of the country. British lawmakers voted in  favor of these strikes against ISIS in Syria on Wednesday after a lengthy  debate. This comes after France asked the U.S.-led coalition to bump up the  military offensive against ISIS.    And more breaking news. Swiss authorities are conducting raids and arresting  multiple FIFA officials in Zurich.    CNN's Don Riddell is here with all the details.    Don, let's start first with what we know about the specific raids.   
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: These have been taking place this morning, as we understand it, justice officials from Switzerland working at the behest of  the U.S. Justice Department over here on this side of the Atlantic.    At 6:00 a.m., began their operation. We know that they have made several  arrests. We understand that they're planning to arrest more than a dozen senior  soccer officials who were gathered in Zurich for a meeting. At which they were  due to be discussing reform proposals ironically. Of course, it now seems that  that will not be what they're discussing today. The day's events are due to get  under way in about an hour or so. But of course, once again, FIFA has been  thrown into absolute turmoil. Some of the arrests were made at the luxurious  hotel which was the scene of the spectacular raids that were made just before  the presidential election back in May. And once again, the expo has been  absolutely thrown into disarray. The future for FIFA already was looking very,  very uncertain. And it remains to be seen where they're going to be going from  here. We need to find out who has been arrested, who has been charged.    But this is an organization in absolute crisis. The president, Sepp Blatter, is  currently suspended. The man who was hoping to exceed him is also suspended. He  could be banned for life. This is just a rudderless ship at the moment. And you  have to remember, this is an enormous multi-billion dollar organization. FIFA  organized the World Cup every four years. A very, very powerful world governing  body for football, the world game. And they're just in tatters right now.   
 CHURCH: They are. Of course, we don't know who's been arrested exactly. We don't know the charges at this point. But to your other point, this  has gutted FIFA as an organization. So what happens to it going forward? What  are the alternatives here?   
RIDDELL: Well, I mean, that is the question, isn't it. It remains to be seen how FIFA can emerge from this. It remains to be seen how much the people within FIFA  really genuinely want to reform. I'm sure there are some who realize they have  to reform, and they have to take a new path, and set a better example. But there  are still those within FIFA who think this whole thing's just going to go away.  I think today's operation will be a reminder to those that that is not the case.  These two criminal investigations, one in Switzerland, one in the United States,  are not going to go away. And clearly, the pressure is being amped up. The  dozens or so arrests today, that doubles the size of the criminal investigation  in the case against FIFA. And it's going to be a very interesting day again  today.   
CHURCH: It certainly will be. It's breaking news. It's developing. And you will come back with more details.   
RIDDELL: Yes.  
CHURCH: Don Riddell, always a pleasure to talk to you.   And we now return to CNN's breaking news coverage of the shooting in San  Bernardino.   
VAUSE: Welcome back to our viewers in the United States and all around the world. You're watching CNN's breaking news coverage of a mass shooting at a  California social services center.    I'm John Vause, live in Redlands, California. It's 10:52 p.m. here at night.   
SESAY: I'm Isha Sesay, in Los Angeles.   I'm joined once again by Bobby Chacon, a former FBI agent who served with the  bureau for nearly three decades.    Bobby, thank you for sticking around.    You listened to the press conference just a short time ago with San Bernardino  officials. They still are not ruling out terrorism. Does that surprise you?   
BOBBY CHACON, FORMER FBI AGENT, LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE: No, I don't think so. I think they have to be very cautious in that regard. I think they will not rule  it out until they are very, very sure that these people didn't have a nexus to  any kind of terrorist network.   
SESAY: They're developing the leads, the tips, sharing that information. Is it moving faster or slower than you would expect?   
CHACON: It's moving as I would expect. Possibly a little faster. They identified both individuals. They're now saying they think they were the only two  individuals. They've identified their names. They released their names. I think  within hours, I think we have a lot of information already that's been released.  They obviously have a lot more information that they're not releasing due to the  nature of the information.   
SESAY: I guess it speaks to the amount of resources being sent this way, to the investigation. The fact that they have so many FBI agents working on it and that  kind of thing.   
CHACON: Absolutely. You see how federal, state and local are throwing resources behind things like this. This is the norm now, since the last few years. In my  experience, at the end of my career, everybody turns out. There are no turf  wars. There are no battles. Everybody works together. There are literally dozens  of things happening in this investigation at one time right now simultaneously,  both domestic and internationally.   
SESAY: Walk us through those.  
CHACON: On the ground, you have your typical forensic crime scene taking place. Those guys and gals will be at it all night working the crime scene, doing the  forensics. You have the physical, traditional law enforcement investigation.  They're out interviewing people. You interview one witness, and it will lead you  to three more witnesses to interview. Internationally -- well, locally, you  still have the ATF running out the gun traces. Internationally, I'm sure they're  running his U.S. passport. This gentleman was a U.S. citizen. I'm sure they've  contacted the State Department for traces on his passport, where he traveled.  The female as well. They haven't announced her citizenship yet. I'm not sure  why. They've got the State Department I'm sure onboard. The FBI overseas  offices, the legal attaches overseas are probably running down leads. Probably  send immediate leads to wherever we think these people have visited.   
SESAY: It's worth pointing out for our viewers that San Bernardino is just about an hour away from where you and I sit here in Los Angeles.   
CHACON: Correct.  
SESAY: You know this area pretty well. This is an area that's been through a lot. And now this.   
CHACON: It was hit very hard with the economic downturn several years ago. Lots of unemployment. Lots of foreclosures out there. This is an area that's been hit  hard. The people there are resilient. They're staying the course. They've got an  incredible sheriff's department, police department out there, excellent  investigators. I have no doubt that all contributed to the very quick resolution  of this incident.   
SESAY: Bobby, we appreciate the insight and analysis. Thank you so much.  
CHACON: You're welcome.  
SESAY: Thank you for staying with us.  
CHACON: Thank you. SESAY: You're watching CNN's breaking news coverage of a mass killing at a southern California conference center.    I'm Isha Sesay, in Los Angeles.   
VAUSE: I'm John Vause in Redlands, California. We'll be back with much more after a very short break. You're watching CNN.   
