    
HIGHLIGHT: A mass shooting in San Bernardino, California.        
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And maybe they thought think they couldn't go down the side block here. We see this other vehicle coming this way.   
BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR: Look at all those cars. That is a tremendous law enforcement presence.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right. Well, you are going to -- you are going to see that in situations like this.    The more police officers you have there, the better. And just as long as  everybody is coordinating correctly, and know how to respond to something like  this, you know, that's a good scene for us.   
BALDWIN: Let's listen in live to an affiliate there covering this in San Bernardino, California.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Those are different colors basing on the injuries that they come in and what severity of them, whether they're critical, minor, or anything  like that.    You can see that triage center being set up right now. Fire department is  holding out right now as law enforcement is in the building trying to figure out  exactly what they have, clearing that building, as you mentioned earlier, one by  one.    But you can see to the right here, as we pan to the right, see all of the people  walking away from the location. These are all potential witnesses. They're going  to get these people into some area into the park. They're going to debrief with  everyone, try to figure out what they saw, who they saw, try to get an accurate  number on how many shooters there are in the building.    We have heard anywhere from one to three shooters, get descriptions of those  shooters, so the law enforcement agencies and those tactical interaction teams,  those interactive teams getting in there right away, can make contact with these  shooters if they haven't already.    But right now, they're going to bring them in, they're going to put them under  this tree and they're going to interview them shortly. We're going to pull out a  little bit wider. We just got on scene. We have two helicopters on scene. We are  going to give you two pictures from Air 7HD and the sister ship here that I'm  in. And right now, you can see this is the command post area, just a lot of fire  equipment, a lot of ambulances in here trying to figure out what we have. We're  going to push back into the intersection, interchange here, intersection to try  to see if there's anybody being treated down at the center right now.    You can see there's a group of paramedics and the fire department in there. It  looks like they do not have any victims there. It's hard to see right now. We're  up at 3,000 feet, trying to stay out of the way of law enforcement right now,  but a very serious situation, a big response right here, multiple agencies,  multiple fire departments all trying to converge on this.    Right now, it's a fog of war, trying to figure out what they have got going on.  You can see some SWAT team members coming out of the left side of your screen  walking behind the fire engine. That's a good sign that they're all coming out  and they're not rushing in. I don't know what that may mean, whether the  suspects have been stopped or not, but it doesn't appear to be any of these SWAT  team members running in right now.    Uncertain what that tells us, but right now we're hearing at least -- from Rob  McMillan's source, at least 12 fatalities, possibly one to three shooters right  now. And that's what's going on here. We're just trying to figure out what we  can see up here. We are going to try to get some more information.    You can see some people being treated there on the northwest corner there of  Waterman Drive right near the facility, the Inland Regional Center Facility.  Again, this is a facility that treats   
BALDWIN: All right. So you have been listening to the helicopter there of our local L.A. affiliate KABC describing the scene here, as you can see here a woman  being taken off on a stretcher presumably to the hospital there in San  Bernardino.    If you're just joining us here, as we're just past the top of the hour, you're  watching CNN. We're in the thick of breaking news.    San Bernardino, about 60 miles east of Los Angeles, and this is an active  shooting situation, according to police, could be one shooter, could be as many  as three separate shooters. You just heard that chopper reporter describe  fatalities. Those numbers, CNN cannot confirm.    Again, let me just be clear. We do not have those numbers confirmed here at CNN.  The latest we have -- and this is from San Bernardino Fire -- that they have  been responding to reports of 20 victims in the shooting incident in the 1300  block of South Waterman. When they say victims, I don't know if that's  fatalities, those injured.    This new piece of information I do have as we're looking at some of these live  pictures on the scene, tremendous, tremendous law enforcement presence here,  Loma Linda University Medical Center spokesperson telling CNN that their center,  their medical center is expecting an unknown number of patients from this  shooting. The spokesperson says it's unclear how many patients they will be  receiving or the extent of their injuries. But it is a trauma -- level one  trauma center for the people of San Bernardino.    So, Art, can you just walk me through, if you are this local medical center here  anticipating who knows how many presumably gunshot victims into their medical  center, how are they preparing for this?   
ARTHUR RODERICK, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, if they're a level one trauma center, then they have practiced these types of scenarios before.    So, obviously, the triage that is being done at the scene is going to be key to  get those who are more seriously injured in first. I'm sure that they're in  contact with those rescue squads and ambulances that are transporting these  injured, so that they know immediately which ones have to be taken into surgery  or treated elsewhere.    So, you know, these trauma one level units are fantastic at handling these types  of scenarios.   
BALDWIN: Yes. They will be ready to handle these patients as they are coming in.       What you're looking at right now, we have been watching this for the last couple  of minutes, presumably these are people who worked in this building or who were  inside the building at the time of the shooting. And they have been walking out  one by one by one hands up in the air, slowly, carefully, cautiously here being  guided by local law enforcement there on the ground.    It looks to be -- this is the area, if you're familiar with San Bernardino, this  is South Waterman and Orange Show Road. And so as they're getting these folks  across the street away from the shooter or shooters to safety, lots of -- we  have seen patrol cars, dozens of patrol cars. I have seen an armored vehicle up  on the sidewalk closest to the center, and also ambulances, stretchers.    We mentioned triage. A lot of times in situations like these, when you bring  these victims out, they're color-coded depending on the severity of the injury.  Thus the higher the severity, the faster that person gets to this hospital.    Harry Houck is with me, former NYPD detective and current CNN law enforcement  analyst. Boris Sanchez is with me here on the desk in New York as well as we  have been covering this for the better part of the last hour here.    Harry, as we're watching these folks walking out, your assessment.   
HARRY HOUCK, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Right.   Yes. Well, this looks like this is the safe zone. This is the safe zone where  people can actually stand around and are not worried about getting shot.  Apparently, the police there have the location where the shooters might be, and  have that area cordoned off. So they don't really have to worry about what's  going on right here.    Now, what's really important here is interviewing these people that were inside  the scene, because what you need to do is you need to get the stories from the  people. And the stories that are consistent with each others' are the ones that  the police are going to have to follow. We need a description of the shooters.    What did they wear? Now, are we going to find out if there's one or two. You  might have a couple of witnesses that saw one shooter and another couple  witnesses that saw another shooter. If we find out the description of the  clothing and maybe the weapon they were, now we know. We can be able to  identify, yes, there's one shooter, there's two shooters because somebody said  the guy wore a green shirt and jeans.    The other guy wore a red shirt and jeans, and now another person said they saw  somebody with a yellow shirt and jeans. Now we know we have got three shooters  here. All right? That's what the police are going to be looking for. And they're  going to want to find out exactly where inside the building the shooting  started, what did they see, and how many more people might be locked in rooms.    They might have little safe rooms inside this location that we saw over in  Colorado.   
BALDWIN: That's right.  
HOUCK: Hopefully, we're seeing that. The police are going to have to try to get to those locations and get those people out of there.   
BALDWIN: OK. Thank you, Harry. Stay with me.   I'm being joined -- Joe? All right, Joseph Giacalone, the -- former FBI?   
JOSEPH GIACALONE, FORMER NYPD OFFICER: New York City Police Department.  
BALDWIN: New York City Police Department.   Forgive me, sir. Thank you so much for jumping in on the coverage here.    As I'm as looking at you, I'm glancing down at this. Now apparently the shooting  has been confirmed happening near the Inland Regional Center. It is a nonprofit  there in San Bernardino that works with individuals with developmental  disabilities. Staff members provide services to more than 30,000 people with  developmental disabilities and their families in the San Bernardino and  Riverside Counties. That is apparently confirmed where the shooting happened at  or near.    And, Joe, I don't know how much you have been watching here. We have been in  this for about an hour and we have heard from two separate eyewitnesses. We  don't know. This could be one, two or three possible shooters, P.D. describing  them as suspects. We have been watching people walking out with their hands up  from within this facility.    But we heard from two eyewitnesses describing their loved ones holed up, locking  themselves in offices within this building, describing hearing shots. How does  that factor, that variable change for -- if you're FBI, ATF, police, trying to  find the shooters?   
GIACALONE: Yes. Well, unfortunately you don't know who the shooters are. As law enforcement, you're responding to the scene, it's chaotic, it's hectic. You have  got people maybe running out towards you.    I mean, this is where some of the training comes in, in respect of not only the  police, but also with all the mass shootings that we have had, talking to people  in all the organizations about what to do and what not to do in case this  happens.    So what you hope for, that this facility had some of this active shooter  training and that they know that you're going to try to escape first, try to  hide out second and the last thing that they have to do is fight. That's  basically what you're going to be hoping for that happens in this place.    I know hope is not a plan for law enforcement, but this is the only thing they  have right now so they can sort out through this whole chaotic mess about what  they actually have here.   
BALDWIN: Joe, stay with me.   I know I have Kristin Krause on the phone now. Kristin is the co- director of a  charter school here just around the corner from this active shooting situation.    Kristin, how are you doing?   
KRISTIN KRAUSE, WORKS NEAR SHOOTING SCENE: I'm good. Thanks.  
BALDWIN: Tell me. I spoke with someone else from a charter school just around the corner as well. I don't know if you're from the same place. But how close  are you to where this is happening?   
KRAUSE: We're -- so, from the golf course, we're a little bit off of Waterman. We're probably about a mile, mile-and-a-half away.   
BALDWIN: So you have how many children at your school right now?      
KRAUSE: We have about 450 students that are K-8.  
BALDWIN: K-8. And what are you being told by law enforcement? Are all the kids at the school right now? Are you on lockdown?   
KRAUSE: Yes, we're on lockdown. Honestly, we don't necessarily have lots of conversations with law enforcement, so the moment that we found out  there was a situation, we called dispatch.    They say that we should be on lockdown. And so we go on lockdown. We don't ask a  lot of questions. Our number one priority is to protect children and so we have  been doing our best to keep updated. Obviously, our phones have been off the  hook, but we're just here to reassure parents and our kids that we're fine, that  we're protected, and that we're doing everything possible.    Our school is pretty secured. And really we have all gates locked. We're doing  everything we can to make sure our kids are protected and calm is the main  thing.   
BALDWIN: Absolutely. Good for you for taking matters into your own hands and calling dispatch and locking down the school. You well know, sadly, schools  around the country are prepared for this kind of thing.    Let me ask you this. Do you know this area where we're describing? I understand  the shooting happened at or near the Inland Regional Center. This is a place  that works with folks with developmental disabilities. Do you know that place?   
KRAUSE: Correct. Yes, we do. We actually have kids that go to that center. And so when the kids have special education needs, sometimes, they belong to that.  So, yes, we're somewhat familiar with that.   
BALDWIN: Can you tell me more about the center, what they provide people in the community?   
KRAUSE: So, mainly, they're just providing services.   And I know just basically what impacts our school, and so when we have kids who  have special needs, that they provide extra services in their home to give them  those services that sometimes the school can't provide. But it's mainly for  support of families in town, that they provide services through I don't know  exactly what money, but that's just kind of how it works. They just provide  support services for people in town.   
BALDWIN: It sounds wonderful, what they're able to do for it sounds for both like San Bernardino and Riverside Counties.   
KRAUSE: Yes.  
BALDWIN: Have you ever been in the building, Kristin?  
KRAUSE: I have not.  
BALDWIN: Would you be familiar with the layout of the building?  
KRAUSE: No.  
BALDWIN: OK. OK. And in this area, what's nearby? Is it -- looks to me like there's a golf course. Are there other businesses?   
KRAUSE: There is a golf course. And then if you head south, there's kind of like all the restaurants, so the main row of restaurants and shops. And then we're  actually north of where the incident is taking place.    And so, at that point, we're in an industrial area, so there's not a whole lot  around us. But Waterman is one of the main thoroughfares through San Bernardino.   
BALDWIN: All right, Kristin Krause, I'm going to let you get off the phone with me. You have much more important people to tend to, all those children at your  school. Keep them safe. Kristin, thank you so much.    And I have -- do I have Leigh on the phone now?   
LEIGH VINOCUR, AMERICAN COLLEGE OF EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS: Yes.  
BALDWIN: Leigh Vinocur, American College of Emergency Physicians medical director here.    Leigh, I wanted to bend your ear as we're covering this active shooting  situation in San Bernardino. Police are looking for as many as three different  suspects. As we're looking at this these pictures, tremendous police presence,  EMS, fire on the scene as well. Let me ask you from a medical perspective, if  you are this Loma Linda University Medical Center anticipating an unknown number  of patients, presumably gunshot wounds, how are you preparing?   
VINOCUR: Well, there's disaster plans that are always in place with emergency rooms, and they coordinate with local EMS.    And we do practice that time and time again. So they have a plan in place. They  call in surgeons. They will usually cancel elective surgeries that were  scheduled that day to clear out all the operating rooms to get ready. The  emergency physicians are called in. Extra emergency physicians are called in.    And it's all part of a well-coordinate disaster plan. We then triage the victims  as they come in, according to, you know, who's the sickest, who needs to go  immediately to the operating room, who can be treated in the E.R.   
BALDWIN: Right.   And as we have been watching the sort of setup triage units in the middle of the  road by this building, can you explain to me just quickly, too, I know in  situations like these you have color-coded victims, priorities, as far as  severity of injuries. Walk me through how that works outside of the facility.   
VINOCUR: Yes. According to -- some are color-coded. Red are the most severe. Sometimes, surgeons and E.R. physicians are called on to the scene to help  triage in mass casualties from accidents. Sometimes, they have to extricate  patients. Within shootings, they usually don't.        But they're all planned and coordinated through the EMS, sometimes triaged right  at the scene so they know who's going to be brought back to the hospital first.   
BALDWIN: OK. OK.   Leigh, thank you so much for jumping on the phone with me. As we know,  specifically, this Loma Linda University Medical Center spokesperson, they are  expecting an unknown number of patients from the shooting there at the Inland  Regional Center in San Bernardino. Thank you so much.    And now, as we're trying to put the pieces together of this active shooting  situation, again, police saying they are looking for one, two, possibly three  different suspects in this situation. We're hearing now from folks within the  ground, folks who have been in this building who have gotten out safely. Here  are some witnesses.       
QUESTION: You're telling me that your wife is in that building?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She just got out, just got out of the building right now.  
QUESTION: What did she see?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She said the guy shot -- came in next to her office, and I guess started shooting. They locked themselves in, in her office. They seen  bodies on the floor. And she said by now ambulances are taking people out in  stretchers. She was able to get out of the building already, but there's still  people inside.   
QUESTION: Was she hurt? Is she OK?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No. She's OK. She said SWAT is already inside right now.  
QUESTION: Did she tell you what the people, the suspects, looked like?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She said all she heard were the shots. She didn't get a chance to see anything.   
QUESTION: OK. And what business does she work in?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Inland Regional Center.  
QUESTION: OK. And what do they do at that business? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She works with kids with disabilities.   
QUESTION: And do you have any idea how many people are typically in the building this time of day?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a pretty big building. I don't know, probably a couple hundred.   
QUESTION: How did you first hear about what happened?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She texted me. She said she was inside, that there was a shooter outside shooting, that she's locked in, in her office. She said, I love  you. And I came over here.   
QUESTION: Gosh. I can't imagine when you got her on the phone she said she was out, how relieved you must have been.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. Yes. Just right now, just a little while ago.  
QUESTION: What do you think of  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I mean, I'm glad that they came out right away, because I called 911 right away. And they already knew about it. So, I got here as soon as  I could. I work in downtown Riverside.    I left work and just headed out here.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We don't know where those shooters are. They are heavily armed, and they are possibly wearing body armor, things of that nature.    It is not a safe area to be. It's very dangerous. And the fewer innocent people  we have in here, the better.       
BALDWIN: All right, if you are just joining us here, we are in the midst of covering this breaking story out of San Bernardino, California, San Bernardino  just about 60 miles east of Los Angeles. You can see this tremendous presence of  people all thankful to be OK right now because many of these folks have been  able to get out of this facility, where apparently the shooting has been taking  place.    And, again, you heard the woman from the sheriff's department said they. We're  talking multiple shooters. We're hearing one, two, maybe as many as three  shooters at this facility. It is the Inland Regional Center. This is a place  that works with the communities here, folks with developmental disabilities.    And so you heard the husband there talking about his wife was holed up in her  office, locked in her office. Let's actually -- I'm being told -- let's listen  in. We have some more witness sound.   
PAUL LACROIX, FAMILY MEMBER: He works inside there in the facility. And he says that the alarms went off and they were all told to hunker down and hide and  shelter in place. And he says that eventually the police came by and took them  out. He never heard any gunshots or anything like that.    Right now, they're all by the railroad tracks. He says they're getting ready to  load them in -- police have told them that they're going to load them into buses  and take them off, so, I'm assuming, to be interviewed.   
QUESTION: Did he call you or text you? How did you...  
LACROIX: We have been texting back and forth.  
QUESTION: What did his first text say?  
LACROIX: That something was going on, that there was live shooters in the building, and that the police were outside. And they could see them out there,  you know, running around trying to figure out what was going on.   
QUESTION: Did he see anyone injured?  
LACROIX: He did not, no.  
QUESTION: What does he do in the building?  
LACROIX: He works on payroll for the -- all the employees.  
QUESTION: What floor is he on?  
LACROIX: He's on the first floor.  
QUESTION: And he didn't see anyone come in?  
LACROIX: No. They're kind of in an isolated little area because it's payroll. So, they're kind of off away from everybody else.   
QUESTION: Can you tell me once again about what you know about what happened in there today?   
LACROIX: From what I understand, there was three shooters that went in. He said he didn't hear or see any of them, but the reports I have been getting is that  there are -- there were three shooters in there.    Supposedly, they have taken off, the weapons, some type of SUV. Supposedly, they  found a package that they might -- that they believed that might be a bomb, so  that they're investigating that right now. I heard that there were multiple  wounded and multiple fatalities.       
QUESTION: And what is he telling you about what is happening up there right now? He's sheltered in place, correct?   
LACROIX: Oh, no. They have now extracted them out of the building and they're getting ready to transport them off-site to some other place, the police are.   
QUESTION: Was there an event there today? Do you know any information about that?   
LACROIX: He said it was just a normal workday. Everything was just normal going on.   
QUESTION: Has he heard about any angry -- possibly angry employees, anything like that?   
LACROIX: No. No, he hasn't heard anything like that.  
QUESTION: Did he describe whether he heard any shots or whether he saw any of the suspects?   
LACROIX: No, he didn't see any of them.  
QUESTION: What was the text message you received?  
LACROIX: That the alarms had gone off and that they had received word that there were active shooters on site and that the police were there. And they were  trying to get a handle on it.   
QUESTION: What did you do right away?  
LACROIX: I just happened to be over in the area, so I just kind of swung by in case he needed a lift or something, or if I needed to go to a hospital.   
QUESTION: Do you know how many people might he be with right now?  
LACROIX: He said there was a large group. The group he works with is only three, but he said there was somewhere around 20 or so that he has been corralled up  with right now.   
QUESTION: As a father, what's going through your mind right now?  
LACROIX: Now I'm at ease. I know he's safe. He's outside and with police. Police have got him under control. So, I'm relieved at that point right now.   
QUESTION:  
LACROIX: You know, they have got a good handle on it. It's not good seeing all the ambulances coming in and going out. You see a bunch of them leave and then  right now here's two more pulling back up to come back in. It's not a good  situation.   
QUESTION: What was your name, again?  
LACROIX: Paul Lacroix.  
QUESTION: Spell your last name.  
LACROIX: Lacroix.  
QUESTION: Thank you.  
QUESTION: Paul, did he share any feelings with you about this, basically fear? I can only imagine.   
LACROIX: Yes.   He was pretty nervous, pretty upset, you know, worried. He didn't know for sure  what was going on. I told him to just hunker down, make sure their cell phones  were off, keep the noise -- don't make noise, and hide under the desk until you  know that the police are there and ready to help them out.   
QUESTION: Paul, this is something we have been seeing and hearing on the TV, but we never expect it to come to our city. What's it like?   
LACROIX: It's, you know -- it's just not good. It's something that we're starting to have to learn to live with. I think we need to take better stands  than what we're doing.   
QUESTION: And so the text message, was it a few text messages you shared or did you just talk for five to 10 minutes via text?   
LACROIX: No. We had several -- probably 20 texts between us. He was sending group out to the family. So the family was being updated.   
QUESTION: How old is your son? How long has he worked here?  
LACROIX: He's been working here for about five years now.  
QUESTION: Describe what they do inside that building.  
LACROIX: They help with handicapped personnel, people, you know, that might be -- they do all different types of deals. They supply aid to them. They pay the  contractors that actually supply the aid to them. They get them services.    They interface between the state and federal on supplying benefits and  assistance to people with handicapped children. And they -- the children can go  all the way up into adults, because it might be a child that's newborn that has  a handicap, and then they -- and they're in the system until they pass.   
QUESTION: So could there possibly have been children inside this building today?  
LACROIX: They have a facility where the kids and stuff come in, and -- but generally there's not a lot of them. This is more of the work behind the scenes  that takes place here.   
QUESTION: So this isn't a facility where people would bring their children and sit around?   
LACROIX: Not in mass quantities. There might be an appointment set up occasionally for people who they will come in and interview and do stuff like  that, but generally no.    It's not like a Social Security office where you have got a ton of people  sitting around waiting or something like that.   
QUESTION: Do you have any idea how many people work with your son?  
LACROIX: There's several hundred.  
QUESTION: Several hundred. Is it a large building? Can you describe it?  
LACROIX: It's three large buildings. They're probably about the size of that one there, multistory.   
QUESTION: Easy access, walk-in?  
LACROIX: That, I'm not real sure. I have never been in there. I have come by once or twice, but it seems like it's mostly gated, so that there's controlled  access.    But there are certain areas that are open to the public to get into.   
QUESTION: Paul, your son is on a bus getting ready to be shuttled to a safe zone. Did he describe the feeling on the bus, what people are going through  right now?   
LACROIX: No, nothing right now.  
QUESTION: When was the last time you spoke to him?  
LACROIX: Maybe five minutes ago, if that.      
QUESTION: Is there any way to shoot him a call right now to see if he might answer?   
LACROIX: I can try. Last time, it was pretty hard.  
QUESTION: Last time, it was pretty hard. Maybe we can just see where he's at, at this point, see how he's doing, see how the people on the bus might be doing.  They're allowing people to talk on their cell phone?   
LACROIX: Yes. But it was -- it took a few minutes to get through because he picked it up, but he couldn't talk because the police were with him.   
QUESTION: Just trying to get a sense, Paul, of how your son is doing. What is your son's name?   
LACROIX: Garrett.  
QUESTION: How old is Garrett?  
LACROIX: It's not going through now.  
QUESTION: But at least we know Garrett is safe, he's on a bus, he's headed to a safe zone 
. LACROIX: Yes.
QUESTION: OK. All right. Well, if he picks up, we'd gladly love to speak to him.   This is Paul Lacroix. His son was inside the building. He's trying to get in  touch with Paul right now. Looks like he might be on the phone with his son  Garrett who was inside the building.    OK. All right. Well, Paul is going to talk to his son. We will send it back to  you guys in the studio. And as soon as we get any new information, of course, we  will bring it to you.   
BALDWIN: All right, so that was just a local reporter there speaking with a father who provided a lot of information.    Listen, it's sickening. It is sickening to be covering this. It is sickening to  know that these shooters -- you heard him -- his son who is safe describing  three people armed walking into this building.    Folks, the victims here are people who are helping the community. They work in  this facility. They're helping those disabled, those with the special needs.  That is who was targeted at lunchtime. As you heard that father say, it was just  a normal workday, and this is what has happened.    A couple of notes, as I'm looking over to Joe Giacalone and Harry Houck here, my  two former NYPD detectives who have extraordinary law enforcement expertise.    When we heard from -- I believe she was from the sheriff's department, a couple  of notes on this. She described the shooters as heavily armed, described body  armor and she used the pronoun they. I'm going to ask you about that in a  second. But we have more sound. Let's go.   
LACROIX: Hang on a second.  
QUESTION: OK. Let's see if you can put it on speakerphone and we can hear how he's doing, how the people on the bus are doing. Thank you so much for taking  the time, Paul. We appreciate it.   
LACROIX: I think I lost him.  
QUESTION: OK. Paul is trying to figure out his cell phone. He just spoke to his son. Looks like they have 20 to 30 people.   
LACROIX: Garrett? Yes, I can hear you.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:I would say we have over a hundred, maybe over 200.   
LACROIX: Over a hundred right there now?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, maybe 200.  
LACROIX: Maybe 200? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What?  
LACROIX: Maybe 200 waiting?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.  
QUESTION: Hi, Garrett. This is Crystal Cruz with KCAL 9 News. Thank you so much for taking the time for us.    How are you doing right now? How are the people around you doing?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pretty shaken up.  
QUESTION: Can you describe where going, where you're heading? Are you on a bus?  
BALDWIN: We're going to pull away from that. Let's let this father have some time with his son.    And we -- I can tell you that the president of the United States has now been  briefed on what's happening there in San Bernardino.    And I also have Deborah Feyerick, who is standing by, who has some new  information here on what's happened at this location there.    Deb, what do you know?   
DEBORAH FEYERICK, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the reason that police think that there may have been as many as three people involved in this shooting is  that a source, several sources, actually, witnesses, told police that they saw  three men.    And, apparently, the suspects got into a black SUV and then exited the parking  lot. Now, the sheriff's bomb squad found a suspicious package on the second  floor when a SWAT team was clearing the building. And so right now, you have got  a bomb squad and an explosive ordnance disposal team which is basically looking  at the device and they're going to deal with that device robotically.    So, although the building itself appears to be cleared of people, right now,  they're looking to make sure that no devices were left, though they do believe  that one is suspicious. We do know that the sheriff's homicide unit is heading  to the command post, and you have got a number of SWAT teams that are responding  to this from San Bernardino Riverside County, also Orange County SWAT.    But the reason they believe that there are three individuals is because  witnesses told police that they saw three men with what appeared to be long  rifles leaving that scene, and they're now looking for a black SUV right now,  Brooke.   
