    
HIGHLIGHT: The latest on the California shooting.    
 CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: Agencies also helping out here, which gives us a little insight into the different angles that are being pursued.    So, what do we know about the people specifically involved, the suspects, the  man and woman who shot up a holiday party, again, killing 14 people? The context  is important. That's the deadliest mass shooting in the U.S. since Newtown.    Now, there had been conjecture early on by investigators that we may not know  exactly what drove them to murder ever. That's probably not going to be the  worst case scenario. We do have some answers. We have new information that's  coming in. Here's what we know right now.    We know their names, Syed Farouk, Tashfeen Malik, 28 and 27 years old, known to  be husband and wife. The marriage came under some curious circumstances. It may  have involved travel abroad. That there are reports out there about that, that  are still being chased down by investigators.    Now, what happened at the party? Well, we know that the male suspect was there  because he worked for the county health agency. He was at the party. Something  happened at the party. He left. It is described by witnesses at the scene as  being somewhat of a hostile situation. What happened next is for sure, he  returned. He returned with his wife and they were heavily armed in a way that  suggests planning. That even if something happened at that party, the eventual  attack was not simply spontaneous. Military wear, tactical military garb on them  as well.    We're going to start seeing officials pulling up now. This isn't something  urgent. This is about not security, it's about the upcoming presser, so don't  worry about that.    They had long guns. They had handguns. They had a potential explosive device.  Again, that goes to the spontaneity versus the planning of this. They had passed  off their six-month-old child to the grandmother, saying they had a doctor's  appointment that day, which was obviously not true. So all of these factors go  into the investigation of what's going on.    President Obama has been speaking about this. He did it during an interview with  CBS and he just did it again recently. Here's what he had to say as a point of  focus.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: At this stage, we do not yet know why this terrible event occurred. We do know that the two  individuals who were killed were equipped with weapons and appeared to have  access to additional weaponry at their homes.       
CUOMO: All right, there's no question that President Obama focuses very heavily on the fact that guns were here, that this is another mass shooting. There were  two yesterday. There have been 355 this year alone. And to the president, that  speaks to a pattern that is not replicated by any other developed country.  However, the investigators are looking far beyond the means to the motives here.    Let's bring in Chief Jim Bueermann. He's the former head of the police in  Redlands, California.    Good to have him.    Also, let's bring in CNN's Victor Blackwell. He's anchoring for us from a  different part of the location, where the home was that started the entire  chase.    Victor, let's pick up with you first, just to get a sense of, that's where it  all changed. They went from being on the search to being in the hunt. What  happened there?   
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, certainly, when officials, we're told by the San Bernardino police chief, Jarrod Burguan, got some information, a  lead, and not being specific about that yet, that this address was connected to  Syed Farouk. Officers traveled here. They noticed a black SUV with Utah tags  slow down, kind of pass them at a really slow pace and then race off and then  the chase was on. It didn't last very long. They didn't go very far, about a  quarter mile. And that's where everything ended with that shootout with about 20  police officers. Syed Farouk, 27 years old, and Tashfeen Malik, 28 years old,  both died in that vehicle.    There was something that was thrown out of the vehicle. At the time, it was  thought that it was a pipe bomb. Later determined to be fake.    But let me give you an idea of what's been happening here since. There was a  search overnight for explosives. Inside this town home, in a vehicle outside, no  explosives found that we've been told of by officials. But we have seen the FBI  here all morning inside, outside the home, starting the search for evidence, to  get answers to the question why. Just in the last few moments we've seen members  of the regional computers forensic lab leave here, of course looking through any  laptops, any desktops, any hard drives or thumb drives or cell phones that could  lead to the larger question, why. And are there other people supporting these  two, because it took a lot of time and a lot of preparation to get that tactical  gear, the weapons, the ammunition, and to plan the massacre that they carried  out yesterday. They're not using the term premeditated, but it is quite  difficult to believe. I'm sure you're hearing from lots of law enforcement  officials, that this was perpetrated or - or the catalyst of it was simply an  argument at a holiday party. He went home, got his wife, shot 31 people, killing  14 of them.   
CUOMO: Right. Right. I mean from the beginning, that has looked to be just an improbable situation, Victor. You're right to speculate on it that way because  the information and the reporting is confirming that.     If we can bring in justice correspondent Evan Perez.    We're getting new information now that authorities, after looking in that house,  as Victor was suggesting, not just perfunctory but probative, they were getting  in there, finding information that leads to a different picture of this, that  takes us far away from the idea of anything random in this and to what  specifically the intentions of this man and his wife were. What have we just  learned?   
EVAN PEREZ, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Chris, I think it's really more a complicated picture is kind of what the president said just about an hour ago.  We do know that law enforcement officials do believe that there are indications  that Syed Farouk was radicalized. Now, they believe that that could be at least  part of the motivation for why this shooting took place yesterday in San  Bernardino. That doesn't explain everything, however. They still believe that  there might be some indication of a workplace motive, some kind of workplace  beef, that at least may have triggered or played a role in what happened  yesterday. So some kind of hybrid explanation of what happened yesterday.    We do know that officials have found indications that he was in touch with and  had communications with one - at least one terrorism suspect. Somebody who was  being looked at by the FBI and that the FBI was already investigating and that  there were some communications over the phone, by social media, that are now  being analyzed simply to try to figure out whether or not that also played a  role in this radicalization and in what might have - what occurred yesterday.    We also know that they are looking at some overseas communications. Now, we  don't know whether that indicates that anybody was ordering what happened  yesterday to occur. Again, there's no indication of that yet. We do not know of  any international terrorism links. But again, that's something that the FBI is  trying to chase down and make sure that they understand exactly how that fits  in.   
CUOMO: Right.  
PEREZ: Again, the thing that the FBI is trying to make sure they do is not foreclose any of these possibilities. We know that they found, for instance,  some kind of homemade bomb lab. It's - you know, we know that they found a  backpack at the scene of the first shooting, Chris. And apparently he would -  this is where he made these bombs. This is something that he had rigged together  with a remote control car -   
CUOMO: Right.  
PEREZ: And was intended to detonate yesterday and did not happen. We don't know exactly why that did not happen.    So again, these are all the pieces that the FBI is putting together 
. CUOMO:Right.  
PEREZ: Indications of radicalization, however, is what has moved the FBI and the president to make this an FBI investigation because there are all indications  that this is where this is going.   
CUOMO: Right. FBI, ATF, JTTF, the Joint Terrorism Task Force. We hear about multiple agencies and assets being involved. And it's making more and more sense  why.    Evan, thank you very much. Let us know what else you hear on that.    Let's bring in former chief, Jim Bueermann, here.    Chief, thank you again for being with us this morning.   
CHIEF JIM BUEERMANN, REDLANDS, CALIFORNIA POLICE: A pleasure.  
CUOMO: You didn't want to betray the trust of what you had known and been told, but now that we're reporting it, we can get some better context on this. If  there's evidence that this guy was radicalized, that goes to why the authorities  are looking at who else knew and how did he learn to do what he did with that  bomb. Was he a lone wolf, self-radicalized? We know that online hate magazines  generated by bad guy groups often teach you how to do things, like how to use  toys and cell phones as detonators. Maybe that's why it didn't work, because he  was teaching himself, but that's certainly the ambit of perspective. You're  saying you know from the guys looking, that they were looking in that house for  a reason and they found things.   
BUEERMANN: Well, the investigators have been working all night long, right, so they know a lot more today than they did yesterday about what their motive was,  who these people were and who they may have had contact with. So I think we're  going to hear in the press conference coming up here some very specific things  that will tell us more about what the motive was and, as tragic as this incident  was, and it was horrific, it looks to me like the police intervention probably  forced all much more tragic outcomes.   
CUOMO: And, look, there's - there's objective reason to believe that. Why? Well, look how they scrambled.   
BUEERMANN: Right.  
CUOMO: What usually happens, if this is radicalization, if this is that kind of that typical, hateful, if hollow, terrorist attack, they usually stay there, try  to do as much bad as they can and then take themselves out when they are  outgunned and try to blow themselves up sometimes. Here, they fled. Now what  does that speak to? Not having what it takes to fulfill their mission or that  they weren't really prepped by anybody and maybe this was a lone wolf?    Let's put the information we have to some better minds. We have CNN's Jim  Sciutto. We have former FBI agent Jonathan Gilliam. We also have former CIA  operative Bob Baer and former ATF explosive expert Tony May. We could not have a  better panel assembled for this. Jimmy, let me start with you.    We've been looking at this overnight together. From the beginning, we have been  hearing whispers that this was about where else this extends to. Now that we're  hearing they believe he was radicalized, the question becomes how and perhaps by  whom, right?   
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: No question. Listen, the sad fact is, it's very easy to become radicalized today. It's interesting, you  know the Paris attacks, I was told by French investigators, that the  radicalization process today, typically in the past, their experience had been,  it would take months. Now it can happen in two or three weeks. The - you know,  it's happening so quickly it's hard for them to keep up. We don't know how long  it took here, but it just speaks to the difficulty in tracking this kind of  thing as it happens.     And we know that groups such as ISIS and others have a very powerful  social media presence that has been fantastic at magnetically attracting  recruits to this extremist cause. That's one thing. I mean you heard the  president say just a short time ago this possibility that it was terrorism. You  don't have the president saying that from the Oval Office often unless there was  something to back that up, and we're seeing now one reason why that may be, that  this evidence of radicalization.    But again, as Evan Perez was reporting there, law enforcement, counterterror  officials, still see the possibility of some possible mix of those two motives,  a workplace grievance, perhaps joined with extremist motivation. It would be  rare, it would be odd, but there are a lot of rare and odd things about this  case, namely that you had a husband and wife carry out this bloodshed. So we're  learning a lot from this and sadly what we're learning is it's fairly alarming.   
CUOMO: All right, Jimmy, thank you very much.   Let's go from that piece of the puzzle that you put together. Bob, let me bring  you in, Bob Baer here, because then this becomes about, well, how effectively  can you be self-radicalized? What are we seeing in what happened here that  speaks to how well or not well these people did what they wanted to do? What do  you see?   
BOB BAER, CNN INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ANALYST: Well, I - you know, I've got the impression, you know, so far with the facts that have come out, that these  people were trained or - I mean, you can't self- train your something - yourself  in, you know, confronting the police in a gunfight. You almost have to do that  in a training camp. That's what disturbs me. And the fact that they were aware -  the police reaction time and they get - they got in, committed the violence and  got away. They used homemade devices - at least fake homemade devices to break  contact with the police. You know, I can't tell you what they were going to do.  If they were going to go back and maybe try to detonate that explosive, that  remote controlled - you know. But now that the signs of radicalization are out  there and their technique, this has all the hallmarks of a preplanned terrorist  attack. I'm sorry, it just does. I mean, you know, whether they were inspired or  directed -   
CUOMO: Well, don't be sorry.  
BAER: Yes, well, I mean, I hate - you know, I'm out on a limb on this, but I'd say it's international terrorism. And does it really matter whether they're  inspired or directed.   
CUOMO: Well, look, I mean - let's just go - let's go where the evidence finds us. No need for apologies. This is what you do for a living. But let me bring  the chief back in here for a second, Jim Bueermann.    When we're looking at what they did, these guys ran out of this situation.   
BUEERMANN: Right.  
CUOMO: And then they stuck close to the area. That does not speak to an intelligent plan, does it?   
BUEERMANN: Well, either that or it speaks to a change in tactics. I mean I think we should be very concerned about what these folks did. And it has significant  implication for policing in the United States.   
CUOMO: How so?  
BUEERMANN: Well, so we've got this discussion going on about the difference between a guardian and a warrior mentality, right? Yesterday, you saw police  officers acting clearly in that warrior mind-set. They were taking rounds and  they're going to give it right back. But we live in a democratic society. We  want democratic policing. We want to build trust and confidence in the police  across our communities and doing that in a way that doesn't offend people while,  at the same time that we're trying to protect the community from incidents like  this is going to be very complicated, especially if the self - if this turns out  to be an incident of self-radicalized terrorism and those people have changed  their tactics where they're not going in and blowing themselves up, but they're  going to hit and run, like they did here, I think this creates huge problems for  the police and change in tactics and training.   
CUOMO: Certainly big concerns. Another point of potential, potential sophistication, John Gilliam, is the weapons. We know that this guy, who's now  dead, he bought a couple of the handguns himself several years ago. That time  frame is probably going to wind up being relevant. Secondly, the long guns were  bought legally, we're told, and I'm holding up quote fingers for a reason. He  didn't buy them. And there's probably good reason why he didn't. I don't think  you can buy those AR-15s in California. The law has gotten more and more  sophisticated over time. But they'd have to be grandfathered in around 2001,  2006. The former chief, Jim Bueermann, is shaking his head. I don't think they  couldn't have been bought here in California. And if they were, they wouldn't  have been able to be registered here. So the question is, where did they get  them? The authorities, Gilliam, are saying they know who bought them. They don't  believe he's connected. But then how did they get their hands on his weapons? 
JONATHAN GILLIAM, FORMER POLICE OFFICER: Right. Well, you know, that's a good question. And that's going to be something that is another piece of this puzzle.  And I'm going to go, you know, straight - and go ahead and say this. I'm going  to agree with Bob Baer. I think that we have enough evidence now, having just  left two and a half years ago from the Joint Terrorism Task Force, I'm going to  say this is terrorism, based on the information that we have now, that you can  clearly see that this is a group that is organized and that takes the ideology  from fundamental Islamic jihadism and they're using the tactics that they've  used in the Middle East, now employing women in their attacks.     So what we have to look at now as we further this investigation is  these links that they'll find. Where did these guns come from? You know, a lot  of the times when these sales work, they're not necessarily advertising to the  people that they know. And if they acquire guns from them, they may or may not  know that the person that they got them from may not know that they were going  to use these in a nefarious way.    The other thing that desperately needs to be looked at now, did they belong to a  mosque? If that mosque is - is being investigated for anything, and if there's  any sources inside that mosque so they can see if radicalization is going on  inside there. This is the movements that we have to start taking now.    And let me just - I just want to say this one thing. This country was settled,  it was not conquered. So what we have is a mind-set in - that does not fit  correctly in the - with the mentality of these warriors that are going to come  over here and try to attack us. We need to adjust that. And as the chief was  just talking there a minute ago, as we adjust our mindset to realize that the  rest of the world doesn't necessarily live like we do, we'll then be able to set  up good tactics for law enforcement and people will realize that they have to  come up with their own tactics when something like this happens. And they expect  law enforcement to come in, know that they're going to have to put their hands  up, know how they're going to be treated. If businesses just cast this stuff  aside, they're going to be the next victim quite possibly.   
CUOMO: You know, it's always a tricky conversation. You don't want to scare people. So much of being American, of being free, is living the way you want,  and you never want to put in someone's head that while you're going to have to  do certain things a certain way but, you know what, the realities are what they  are and the risk is real. We keep seeing these in different context. At some  point, it does become part of the new normal.    Now, Anthony May, let me come to you on this, Tony. The idea of a man and a  woman being involved. Multiple shooters already, that takes us all the way back  to Columbine in terms of our history of experience with it here. But the idea of  women becoming more involved in the actual violence and assaults of this  Islamist extremism, what do you think of this and the reports that this guy may  have gone somewhere else and been married to this woman and then brought back  for this 
? ANTHONY MAY, RETIRED ATF EXPLOSIVES EXPERT: Well, you know, I'm notgoing to disagree with this panel. But let's put it all in perspective here. The - and let's - I'll use the term circumstantial evidence at this point because  we're 24 hours into this. The FBI, the ATF, local law enforcement, San  Bernardino County, they're - they've got a lot of work still to do. But just  looking at the circumstantial evidence, this individual bought these weapons  legally, according to the ATF, two to three years ago. Several years ago the -  al Qaeda was looking for people with clean backgrounds, clean records, so they  could freely travel when they were targeting the aviation industry. I talked  with America West, to their pilots, we talked about this routinely. So this kind  of fits the picture. A guy has a clean background, able to purchase firearms  legally.    Let's move a couple years ahead. This event yesterday at the holiday event, I  believe, was just a catalyst. This individual was planning this event, had  pre-stocked weapons, had built bombs. And let's talk about the bombs that he  built particularly. These were crude devices. Nothing dramatic. But they did use  a tactic right out of the al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula "Inspire" magazine,  their number 12 issue in March of 2014, where it talks about using toy car  remotes as its initiator. The same article also talked about targeting events  with large gatherings of people, not the buildings.    So we've got all of this happening. We've got the event. He goes to a holiday  party. Reportedly leaves mad. Comes back with his wife, I believe this being the  catalyst, they had some other target, some other plan in mind. They shoot up the  event. They leave a package behind with a remote control device.   
CUOMO: Yes.  
MAY: Now, our technique for active shooters situations is to hunker down in place, barricade in place, and that works well. Until we see this evolution in  the process of a device where they have - now have the means to leave the event  and initiate it remotely. Now, the device didn't work. I'm being told that -  because of some design flaws. But they leave. They go back to the house,  probably to resupply. So they had some bigger plan in mind. And this has been in  the works for a while.    Now, I'm not saying they're -   
CUOMO: Yes.  
 MAY: Associated or affiliated with al Qaeda, but we've seen a lot of -   
CUOMO:-  
MAY: Self-radicalization, and with the Boston Marathon bomber used this whole technique, the "Inspire" magazine. So this is - this - this is all  circumstantial evidence that we have right now. Workplace violence, terrorism -  I would not lean towards workplace violence other than the catalyst 
. CUOMO:Well, it seems we've moved past that. As you say, it may have been an incendiary moment for the guy, but obviously there was planning in the works and maybe even  some deeper and darker thought before that, that led him to the planning.    Let's take a quick break. The It's panel's being very helpful here and it's good  to have the former chief on as well because he's got ears on the ground and  understands the policing techniques involved, specifically in San Bernardino. We  have more information come in. Stay with us. Right after the break, we have  another piece to the puzzle.   
 CUOMO: All right, we're here in San Bernardino as part of the CNN's continuing coverage of the mass shooting here. Fourteen people, murdered, 17  more injured to various degrees, many still fighting for their lives in local  hospitals. The analysis now on the investigation is obviously about motive, but  specifically what went into this. It looks like it was planned by every way that  you would focus on the analysis. Maybe it was set off by what happened at this  holiday party, but certainly there was plenty that happened before it. And we  have new information on that right now.    CNN can report that the male suspect in this case, who was killed by police  after the murders here, had traveled to Saudi Arabia at least twice. We can  report that in 2013 he went there for Hajj, you know what this is, that's the  Muslim spiritual trip. He went there and did that. But what else may have  happened during that time?    There's other reports going out there about other foreign contact that this man  may have had. His wife, who did the shooting with him, wound up coming here into  the country. She was born in Pakistan. Came in through a fiance visa. Very  common in the United States for a long time. She wound up getting a green card  and becoming a citizen because she was now a wife of an American citizen.    But what else may have been going on there? That is the question that  investigators are looking at and now so shall we.    Let's bring in CNN's Jim Sciutto, former FBI agent Jonathan Gilliam, former CIA  operative Bob Baer, former ATF explosive expert Anthony May and former police  chief here in Redlands, California, Jim Bueermann.    Jimmy Sciutto, I'll start with you.    When we hear about this, we had been processing this information all night. What  does this take investigators too in terms of what these trips could mean?   
SCIUTTO: Well, a couple things. This is the pattern that U.S. counterterror, U.S. law enforcement officials have been warning about, looking out for, for  some time, which is an American, radicalized, either overseas or via the  Internet, who carries out an attack on this soil. It is early. The evidence is  that he was radicalized. But there is still consideration here that there might  have been combined motives. Regardless, there are indications that part of that  motive was extremism and that's significant.    Now, the fact is, you have precedence for this happening, radicalization  happening without any foreign travel, right, because - because groups such as  ISIS and others have been very powerful about motivating young men, whether in  North America or in Europe, to act, even without that foreign travel. But,  listen, you and I saw the importance that that foreign travel can play as we  covered the Paris attacks just a couple of weeks ago because several of the  attackers there, in addition to being Europeans, a lot of social media contact  with these groups, also went to the battlefield.    Now, that's very different from going to Saudi Arabia for the Hajj. It may be  that he went there and that the radicalization happened separate of that or  after he came back to the states, but that is certainly a line of communication  that they're looking into, in addition to phone contact and social media contact  that he had with known international terrorism subjects.    So, you know, what we're seeing here, Chris, is, it appears, that realization of  a danger that folks have been warning about for some time here in the U.S. and  it's sad to see. And it's something that they've known about. They've known this  potential. And we may very well have seen that play out yesterday.   
CUOMO: And, Bob, maybe - Bob Baer, maybe this is part of the reason that we're hearing people in the intel community say, look, don't bother me about the  refugees coming in here, it's about who's already here, who are citizens, and  what do they do to themselves or what do others do to them. What do you see in  this information, especially this wrinkle about the wife, that, you know, she's  brought in here on a fiance visa. That's not what should raise the eyebrow. But  then she then winds up being part of the attack, not support, not abet, an aide,  but actually as part of it?   
BAER: Well, you know, what we've seen so far, Chris, I think she was radicalized as well. Clearly, you know, sacrificing, you know, in effect, her baby, handing  it off, six-month-old baby. She was a committed, let's put it this way,  terrorist. I mean she was - she was a believer. The connections with Saudi  Arabia don't surprise me at all. The Saudi, the average Saudi, is absolutely  opposed to the United States fighting the Islamic State and al Qaeda. They hold  us responsible for the death of Muslims. Would be easy to go back to Saudi  Arabia and someone would suggest go home, make an attack, a random attack. The  Americans are our enemy.   
CUOMO: Now, bob -  
BAER: Yes, go ahead.  
CUOMO: Bob, let me stop you there for a second because, you know, if you were at the CIA right now, I don't know that I'd be hearing that from you. You know, you  get a real mixed message about Saudi Arabia from the U.S. government. They're  our friend. They're helping us. But there's always this undercurrent of others  who say, you know, they're really the head of the snake. They really fund a lot  of these things. And whether it's the Saudi family or some of their cousin, that  there's a real division of friend/foe in that country. Are you saying that this  points to that as well, this latest information?   
 BAER: It's complicated. As we were speaking, I've been getting texts from the Middle East saying the Saudi royal family is not long for this world.  They're trying to hold back this radicalization of the Saudi street. They're  doing their best. You know, the interior minister, the crowned prince, is on our  side   
