    
HIGHLIGHT: Was there a cover-up in a police shooting of a Chicago teenager? New investigation launched into the police department as one of the city's top cop  is fired. The U.S. is expanding its role in the fight against ISIS in Iraq, as  new ground troops heading in as the terrorists make alarming new gains in Libya.  Donald Trump leading in polls and explaining why he thinks his supporters can  contrary him to victory. Kobe's retirement tour is off and running in last  night's game, it was an emotional one for Kobe, playing for the final time in  front of his hometown fan.     
ALISON KOSIK, CNN ANCHOR: Madigan's request to the Justice Department says, "The shocking death of Laquan McDonald is the latest tragedy in our city that  highlights serious questions about the use of unlawful and excessive force by  Chicago police officers and the lack of accountability for such abuse."     CNN's Ed Lavandera has more from Chicago.       
ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Christine and Alison, activists here in the city of Chicago say that the firing of the city's top cop is just the beginning  of the changes they want to see -- a great deal of scrutiny swirling around  Garry McCarthy, as well as Mayor Rahm Emanuel, and just why it took so long for  Officer Jason Van Dyke to be charged with murder in the shooting of the teenager  Laquan McDonald.    The actions of both men under a great deal of scrutiny. Rahm Emanuel says that  there has been too much focus on the superintendent of the police department  here in Chicago. And because of that, it was time to make a change in the top  position there. But many of those activists say Rahm Emanuel bears a great deal  of responsibility as well with the way that Laquan McDonald case has been  handled.    The news of McCarthy's firing came rather suddenly. In fact, Superintendent  McCarthy was on a radio station here in Chicago on Tuesday morning saying that  he still believed that he had the backing of Rahm Emanuel. And then a few hours  later, that announcement was made.    Rahm Emanuel insists that he is ultimately responsible for the way all of this  is handles and he calls for a task force to look at the way these complaints are  handled. But that is a task force that has a deadline of March of next year to  come back with a final report -- Christine and Alison.       
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: All right. Ed, thanks, for that.   New plans this morning to send additional U.S. commandos to Iraq in the fight  against ISIS. Defense Secretary Ash Carter revealing in congressional testimony,  the Pentagon is organizing what it is calling a specialized expeditionary  targeting force. Carter telling lawmakers the plan would take advantage of  American forces unique capability and, quote, "long reach".       
ASH CARTER, DEFENSE SECRETARY: It puts everybody on notice in Syria, that you don't know at night who is going to be coming in the window. And that's the  sensation that we want all of ISIL's leadership and followers to have.       
ROMANS: The Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al Abadi says there is no need for foreign groups on the ground in Iraq. On his Facebook page, the prime minister  writes, "The Iraqi government stresses any deployment of foreign forces, special  or not, in any place in Iraq cannot happen without his approval and coordination  and full respect of Iraqi sovereignty."    Let's get the latest now from Pentagon correspondent Barbara Starr.       
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Christine, Alison, in the face of weathering criticism, the administration making a renewed effort to show  progress against ISIS in Syria and Iraq. Defense Secretary Ash Carter announcing  a new effort for U.S. Special Operations forces to be based in Iraq and do raids  and missions in Iraq, and even to go into Syria, very dangerous business. They  want to build on the intelligence capability already there, have these troops go  rescue hostages, gather intelligence, attack ISIS leadership -- all of that.    Now, it's going to be a relatively small number of special operations force, but  they will be backed up in a significant manner. They will have their own  helicopters, their own rescue forces, if they run into trouble. So, at the end  of the day, that could put another 200 troops into the arena, even as an  additional 50 special operations forces are scheduled to arrive in northern  Syria.    It is a brush-up in the U.S. effort. But officials are telling us, it could  still be weeks before troops arrive, a lot of work to be done about what units  will go and exactly how they will operate -- Alison, Christine.       
KOSIK: OK, Barbara, thanks for that.   And there is concern this morning about a new United Nations report warning that  ISIS has succeeded if building a substantial presence in Libya. The U.N. report  says ISIS has as many as 3,000 fighters in the northern African country,  describing it as the most promising addition to the terror group's so-called  caliphate outside Syria and Iraq. The report likely to increase worries about  ISIS' ability to export terror from its pace of operations in the coastal city  of Sirte, just a few hundred miles from the southern most islands of Europe.    For the latest, let's bring in CNN's Ian Lee.    You know, this is disturbing to say the least, this foothold that ISIS has  gained in Libya.   
IAN LEE, CNN REPORTER: That's right, Alison, very disturbing.   They have been able to carve out this area roughly 100 miles along the coast  that the leader of ISIS, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi is in control of this ISIS  affiliate, sending 800 fighters to serve as a backbone to help train new  recruits and this part of Libya has become a beacon for one of the ISIS fighters  all over Africa.     They're coming. They're not -- they're also getting local support  from Libyans as well. They have been able to push out, expand territory. There  are thousands -- tens of hundreds of thousands of migrants that go through  Libya, trying to get to Europe.    That is something of great concern for European officials as the southern part  of Crete, southern part of Greece is less than 200 miles from Libya. They are  practicing their extreme form of governance on this part of Libya as well. They  are expanding, threatening neighboring countries, Tunisia and Egypt as well, a  lot of concern about this latest report up to 3,000 fighters and growing.   
KOSIK: But when you think about it, it's not overnight ISIS gained its foothold in Libya. You know, many fighters have gone to Syria, have gone to Iraq and then  have -- to join the extremists, of course, have gone back to Libya.    So, why now this report? Wouldn't it have been better to raise awareness about  this and have this report come out a year ago?   
LEE: Well, we've seen the rise of ISIS in Libya. It didn't start as you said -- it didn't start overnight. They have been able to exploit the ongoing civil war  there that kicked off following the 2011 overthrow of Moammar Gadhafi and there  are two warning factions, previously, you have an Islamist government in the  western part.    That ranges from moderate to extremist. You also have the internationally  recognized government in the eastern parts of the country. They have been at  odds fighting each other. ISIS going if, exploiting it.    But they will have some difficulty, some challenges that they don't have in Iraq  and Syria, primarily funding. They do not have the revenue from oil that they do  in Iraq and Syria, although, Libya does have a lot of oil. They also can't  exploit sectarian risks like in Iraq and Syria.    And then they do still have to confront those two other factions, also, al Qaeda  very much active in Libya too, posing a challenge to them as well. So, while we  do have this expansion, they do have some limitations at this point.   
KOSIK: And that's serving as well two terror groups in competition, ISIS and al Qaeda.    CNN's Ian Lee, thanks so much.   
ROMANS: All right. Time for an early start on your money this morning. European shares mostly higher. U.S. stock futures are up after a strong day yesterday.  The Dow climbed 168 points, very strong auto sales countering a weak  manufacturing report.    And today, we will hear from the Fed Chief Janet Yellen. That could change the  direction of everything.    Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg celebrating the birth of his daughter by giving  away 99 percent of his Facebook shares, shares currently valued at 45 billion.  They will go to charities focused on curing diseases, personalized learning and  community building. Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, announced their  plan Tuesday in an open letter to their daughter, Maxima Chan Zuckerberg.    This is what they wrote, "We know this is a small contribution compared to the  resources and talents to those already working on these issues. But we want to  do what we can working alongside many others."   
KOSIK: Thirty is the new 70 in giving.  
ROMANS: Right.  
KOSIK: Donald Trump leading in the polls, explaining why he thinks his supporters can carry him to victory, next.   
ROMANS: Donald Trump stepping up his campaigning, and standing by his apparently unfounded claim that thousands and thousands of Muslims in New Jersey cheered  the 9/11 attacks. Trump though struck a different tune Tuesday as he rallied  supporters in New Hampshire.    CNN's Jeff Zeleny was there.       
JEFF ZELENY, CNN SENIOR WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Christine and Alison, a much more subdued Donald Trump on Tuesday night in New Hampshire, as he took  questions, a rarity for him in this town hall- like setting. For two months out,  the first of the 2016 campaign, a very long campaign that is quickly moving into  the next phase.    But Donald Trump had a more serious tone, several voters told me, and a much  more subdued tone as he talked to this crowd.    One thing I was struck by, he says his voters are the most loyal regardless of  what he says. Let's take a listen 
. DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Youknow, one of the things that comes out in the poll, that I have the most loyal people, that people say he can do anything. He can do anything.    So, I don't know if that's right, but they say I have the most loyal people.    You know, others, if you sneeze, they drop you. Me, I can sneeze, I can say  things that I think are right.    Like you notice what's happening in New Jersey? They're now finding a lot of  people saying, yes, that did take place in New Jersey, right? I wasn't going to  apologize. I wasn't going to apologize.    A lot of things happened today where they were dancing and they were happy.  There were a lot of happy people over in New Jersey, and I saw it and a lot of  people saw it, and I'm getting hundreds of phone calls and a lot of other people  are, too. And things are all of a sudden materializing.   
ZELENY: Now, of course, Donald Trump is still doubling down on that comment from 9/11. He said thousands of people were seen cheering on the New Jersey side of  the river as the towers fell. No video evidence of that has ever come forward.  Donald Trump brought it up again at his rally on Tuesday night. So, that clearly  is going to be an issue.    But I can tell you, the voters I talked to said that they are not interested in  that. They are much more interested in his economic proposals, his terrorism  proposals, his position of strength. The point here is, as he goes forward in  this next two months of this campaign, will any other Republican rivals be able  to stop him, will they be able to slow him?    At this point, it is Trump largely versus the rest of the Republican field.    And he is stepping up his campaigning. He has been in Georgia, New Hampshire,  Virginia, North Carolina and Iowa by weekend. He is stepping up his campaign. He  clearly thinks he could actually win this Republican-nominating contest --  Christine and Alison.       
 ROMANS: All right. Jeff Zeleny for us in New Hampshire.   And while you were sleeping last night, a tweet from a Donald adviser we want to  show you. This is what -- this is what Daniel Scavino Jr. tweeted. Nobody can  deny Donald Trump uncovered a 14-year long 9/11 cover-up, re, celebrations on  Jersey City rooftops.   
KOSIK: So, what he tweeted video of a CBS newscast right after 9/11 of a rooftop celebration.   
ROMANS: It shows the news report, a CBS news report of eight men detained by police for a rooftop celebration, eight men detained. The core of the fact  checking of Donald Trump's claim is thousands and thousands of people were  celebrating 9/11 in jersey. It was always that was an exaggeration.   
KOSIK: What is interesting the timing of this, you think our Alisyn Camerota that interviewed Rudy Giuliani, he said, look, Trump, prove it. I guess this is  the sort of trickle of the Trump plan proving that there were celebrations.   
ROMANS: Rudy Giuliani said, look, yes, of course, there were here and there, a couple of people, eight people, ten people, who we were watching. But the  thousands and thousands is simply an exaggeration Chris Christie says this  didn't happen. Thousands and thousands of people, this didn't happen.    But now, the Donald Trump adviser tweeting out overnight he has uncovered a  cover-up that all these people must be a part of a cover- up of what Donald  Trump thinks is the truth about thousands and thousands of people. This again,  this is about eight people detained.   
KOSIK: Trump also making news yesterday, saying he regrets actually not joining the military. I want you to listen to a little of what he said yesterday.       
TRUMP: I didn't say it, frankly I have deferments because of college like a lot of people did, numerous deferments because of college and I had a foot thing. I  had a deferment for that. At some point I probably would have. I was in the  draft. I got a big number. I think 356. Can you believe that? So, what happened  is I always felt a little guilty.       
ROMANS: Always felt a little guilty about not serving in the military. On that event yesterday, he was taking questions from people, he doesn't do that often.  He was taking questions from folks.    Also, you know, we heard yesterday from Jeb Bush. I don't know what Jeb Bush  said was planned or a slip. Listen to what he said about his vice presidential  candidate.       
JEB BUSH, 2016 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And should I be elected president, I would have my vice president, I think she will be a great partner. I mean, did I  say that out loud?        We always talk about this with one gender in mind. I think we've reached the  point I think in our country where maybe we should be a little less gender  specific about this.   
KOSIK: I think everything that presidential candidates do is strategic and I think his little oops slip-up was strategic. That's a buzz word,  gender equality.   
ROMANS: Let's talk about the Democrats here.   Former first daughter Chelsea Clinton hopes to raise a fundraiser for her mom  later this month, in New York, December 17th. The first Clinton event with  Chelsea as a headliner. She's had a limited role in her mom's campaign.    On the same day, Hillary Clinton will host a fundraiser featuring her husband.   
KOSIK: Looks like she may take a bigger role.   All right. On a night Philadelphia said farewell to hometown boy Kobe Bryant,  the Sixers did something they haven't done since March, win, they won.    Andy Scholes with the details in this morning's bleacher report. That's coming  up next.   
 KOSIK: OK. Breaking news, you may want to sit for this one. The Philadelphia 76ers. They've won a game. They beat the Lakers in Kobe's last game  in his hometown of Philadelphia.   
ROMANS: Andy Scholes has more this morning in the bleacher report -- Andy.  
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Kobe's retirement tour is off and running in last night's game, it was an emotional one for Kobe, playing for the  final time, in front of his hometown fan. Kobe has been booed in Philly before.  But last night, he got a standing ovation. Kobe came out hot in this one,  knocking out three 3s in the first two minutes of the game. But he would  eventually cool off and finish with 20 points.    The 76ers would go on to get their first win of the season, this one being the  Lakers 103-91. Philly had lost 28 games in a row, dating back to last season.    All right, the second-to-last college football rankings are out. Everyone  holding their spots. Clemson remains 1, Alabama 2, Oklahoma 3, and Iowa, 4. The  Sooners are the only team that's pretty much guaranteed their spot. They are  done playing.    The rest need to win on Saturday. Clem is going to play North Carolina for the  SEC title.Florida in a SEC title game. And then Iowa and 5th ranked  Michigan State will be play lack is basically a playoff game. Winner of the  title game will make the playoff. The final ranking will be released on Sunday.    The Boston Red Sox have a new ace. He was expensive. According to reports, the  team is signing 30-year-old lefty David Price to a seven- year $217 million  deal. That's the richest deal ever for a pitcher. Price led the American League  in ERA last year pitching for the Rays and the Blue Jays.    All right. Is Tiger Woods ready to walk away from the PGA tour? That's a  question many are asking after tiger said this to the media yesterday.       
TIGER WOODS, PRO GOLFER: Pretty much everything, you know, beyond this has been, will be gravy. For my 20 years out here, I think I've achieved a lot.     And if that's not all that it entails, then I had a pretty good run.       
SCHOLES: Tiger may not be retiring anytime soon, guys. It sounds like he doesn't think he's going to be able to compete with the top players anymore. Tiger,  still out of action after having a third back surgery in the past 19 months. He  says there is still no timetable for his return.   
KOSIK: Not feeling the confidence there. All right. Andy Scholes, thanks so much.   
SCHOLES: All right.  
KOSIK: Did Chicago leaders cover up the police shooting of a black teenager? A federal investigation launched into policing practices as the city's top cop  gets the boot. That's next.   
ROMANS: Chicago's top cops fired as a federal investigation is launched into the police killing of a black teenager. Was there a cover-up?   
KOSIK: The U.S. increasing its role in the fight against ISIS in Iraq. As the terrorists make new gains in Libya.    Welcome back to EARLY START. I'm Alison Kosik.   
ROMANS: Nice to see you this morning. I'm Christine Romans. It is 30 minutes past the hour this morning.    The search is on for a new head for the Chicago Police Department after Mayor  Rahm Emanuel fired Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy.   
