    
HIGHLIGHT: ISIS, however, did praise Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik as, quote, "supporters," stopping short though of describing them as members. That  declaration of support happening on ISIS's own radio station today. A few  critical things here, A, what you saw inside the home yesterday Stephanie when  you were in there, and then this image. This image of the wife's Pakistani  identification. New developments on a deadly police shooting in broad daylight  in front of dozens of bystanders in Miami Beach today. Cell phone cameras  rolling as police gunned down, killed a man that they say had just tried to rob  a bank, a man they say was wielding a straight-edged razor. CNN has now obtained  newly released police reports from the incident that contain the officer's  accounts of that shooting that happened in October of 2014. But those accounts  from the officers to the department are dramatically different than what we've  now all seen play out on that dash cam video. Today, the families of 14 innocent  people still trying to come to terms with the unthinkable pain of losing their  loved one in a senseless tragedy like what we saw in San Bernardino, California,  this week. Emotions too familiar -- far too for Andy Parker, he is the father of  television reporter Alison Parker, who was brutally shot and killed on live  television by a deranged former co- worker. Today, the families of the 14  innocent people are still trying to come to terms with the unthinkable pain of  losing their loved ones in a senseless tragedy like we saw in San Bernardino,  California, this week, and emotions that are too familiar for Andy Parker, the  father of television reporter, Alison Parker, who was shot and killed on live  television by a deranged former coworker, and in an opinion piece this week, he  writes that he has vowed to end gun violence. Republican front-runner, Donald  Trump, spoke in Iowa today, pumping up his supporters with less than two months  to go before the all-important Iowa caucuses, and this week, he defied his  skeptics, extended a significant lead in the latest CNN/ORC poll, 20 points now  ahead of his closest rival, which is now Senator Ted Cruz, but in that speech  today, he commented on the family of the San Bernardino shooters and also  attacked the fiance visa program, and also said that arming those county  workers, who were murdered in that office event, would have prevented this or  certainly led to less causalities. Donald Trump is on a roll nationwide and  particularly in Iowa after yet another poll has him far ahead of his rivals, but  some in the GOP are worried about what that means for the party. Breaking news  in the shooting in San Bernardino, California, and police conducted a search at  the home of a man that purchased some of the guns used in the San Bernardino  massacre.     
 POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: President Obama's National Security team advised him today that the investigation so far has not turned up any evidence  that this couple was part of a larger terrorist web. ISIS, however, did praise  Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik as, quote, "supporters," stopping short  though of describing them as members. That declaration of support happening on  ISIS's own radio station today.    Let's go straight to Stephanie Elam, she's outside the couple's home in  Redlands, California. A few critical things here, A, what you saw inside the  home yesterday Stephanie when you were in there, and then this image. This image  of the wife's Pakistani identification. Why is that important to investigators?   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, well, let's start with that I.D., Poppy, and the reason why we are interested in this identification, because this  is an I.D. you would get from the state, this is a government issued I.D. from  the government of Pakistan of Tashfeen Malik and it was very difficult to locate  pictures of her, even inside the house, there's a lot -- especially people  looking for pictures of her and none were to be found. But this also shows us,  A, she would have been 30 years old next year and on top of it, it also shows  that she was in Pakistan it looks like as recently as 2013, which would line up  with when we believe her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, actually traveled from  this area where he grew up here in the Redlands area of California and then  traveled to meet her and bring her back as his fiance.    So we're learning more about that. What's interesting about this, though, is  that we know that there's this Facebook posting that she reportedly posted on  Facebook under a different name given her support to the leader of ISIS. This is  just before the attacks happened, right before that, and that it was taken down  by Facebook, but FBI saying that they believe that she did post that and that's  part of the reason now there's more interest in her history in Pakistan before  she came to the United States. And giving more weight to this idea that this was  a terrorist attack evidence as it is now being called, but also still interest  in whether or not since it was at his workplace, whether or not there was a  workplace scuffle there, as well, and maybe the two combined, but the issue here  is did she radicalize her husband and that's what investigators are looking into  -- Poppy 
. HARLOW: Stephanie, you had this unprecedented look inside the houseyesterday. I can't recall ever having cameras inside of a house of people that the FBI is investigating for terrorism and potential ties to ISIS. As you were  in there, what struck you the most?   
ELAM: Right, that's true, and it's important to point out that by the time the media was allowed in there by the landlord, the FBI had already summed up their  investigation. This was no longer a crime scene, they were done, they had  already cataloged and taken out everything that they were interested in. So it  was looking at what was left inside there. And what I was struck by, the fact  this couple they left behind a six-month-old daughter, so inside the house it  looks like a young family. You see toys for the baby, you see a crib, you see  all the normal trappings that you would expect to see inside of a house, except  for the damage that was done in the chaos that right around when their lives  ended. And also the resulting investigation into the property. But what was not  there were any signs that this family was doing anything nefarious or that they  were doing anything to plot against Americans. And what's striking about that is  that it may imply that they were doing a better job of blending in with society  here than standing out, as the lone wolves that they turned out to be.   
HARLOW: That's what's so scary, there were no red flags at all among law enforcement, and yet they had this cache of weapons and pipe bombs, et cetera.  And even the neighbors didn't think there was anything up. Stephanie, thank you,  as always I appreciate it.    All right. Let's discuss this investigation now with CNN intelligence and  security analyst Bob Baer. Bob, I just want to address what Stephanie just  mentioned and that is the blending in, the ability to assimilate so much that  even their next door neighbor had no idea there was anything awry.   
BOB BAER, CNN INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ANALYST: Well, Poppy, that's exactly what the Islamic State's always said it wanted to do, to appeal to Muslims in  this country, converts, anybody that would support their cause, and they know  better than to keep contact with these people. They want to inspire them, they  want them to blend in, they want them to go dark, so to speak, they don't want  them phone calls to Raqqa back and forth. They want them to look like absolutely  normal people, people here legally, even obtained the weapons legally, and so  they did everything that they were supposed to that the Islamic State had  ordered and over social media.   
HARLOW: You know, the Associated Press reporting today that officials were only able to gather two years of phone records instead of five because sort of  coincidentally the NSA's bulk surveillance program ended four days before this  attack. But Bob, I'm interested in, you know, aside from the political bickering  that will happen over this, does that matter from an intelligence perspective,  given that the wife was only here for two years?   
 BAER: No, I don't think it matters at all. This is not an intelligence failure. These people did very well hiding it. And even if you'd  had the phone records, you know, been available to the FBI and the National  Security Agency, it wouldn't have pointed there was going to be a crime. Those  phone records are only good after the crime has been committed. It's very rarely  that an algorithm will tell you that some people are ready to act. That's the  history of it. Unfortunately, it's not, you know, magic, finding these people.   
HARLOW: If this, indeed, is what the White House is saying at this point in time, there's no evidence so far that they are part of a larger terror network,  that would be very different than what we saw in the case of the Paris attacks,  even if they are both ISIS related, and we have heard officials here say, look,  it is the greatest concern right now, sort of these one-off lone wolf attacks.  Do you agree with that, Bob, if these are people, again, that aren't part of a  bigger web?   
BAER: Well, you know, it's a distinction without a difference, whether they were ordered by the Islamic State or not or acted on their own. They can find all the  instructions they want on the internet. They know what the goals are, and these  are people attack this location behind me in order to drive a wedge between  Americans and American Muslims. And so far they've succeeded. They would like  the Americans to turn against Muslims in this country. That was their intention  and that's why they hit a workplace where they were known to the attackers. They  were friends. They had attended, you know, the christening of the baby, not the  christening, excuse me on that, but they were there for these people, and so for  them to turn against them and shoot them is exactly what the Islamic State  wanted.   
HARLOW: Wow. Wow. I just had a guest on the other hour who said, do not let this divide us, Muslims in America, and others in America, because that is playing  into ISIS' hand, as you're saying. All right. Bob, thank you as always,  appreciate it.   
BAER: Thank you.  
HARLOW: Ahead this hour, police in Florida shooting and killing a man today after he allegedly attempted to rob a bank. All of it caught on camera.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Subject went into the bank, handed over a note, saying he had a bomb and that he was robbing the bank.       
HARLOW: We will show you what happened next.   Also, later this hour, fears are growing within the Republican Party that Donald  Trump is well on his way to winning the GOP nomination. We will discuss their  playbook, what they want to do next. Also in a new opinion piece, the father of  the slain journalist Allison Parker says, he sees the gun prevention landscape  changing in this country. Andy Parker will join me live. Stay with us.   
 HARLOW: New developments on a deadly police shooting in broad daylight in front of dozens of bystanders in Miami beach today. Cell phone  cameras rolling as police gunned down, killed a man that they say had just tried  to rob a bank, a man they say was wielding a straight-edged razor. A warning the  video we're about to show you is graphic, it is difficult to watch.    I want to take you straight to Miami, CNN Alina Machado is there. All right. I  know it's early hours, this just happened. Walk us through what we know at this  point.   
ALINA MACHADO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Poppy, police say this all started with an attempted bank robbery that happened just down the street a few blocks behind  on the other side of where this scene is behind me. That call came in about 
10:30 this morning and the caller said that the man had passed along a note to the teller and that he claimed to have had a bomb. Miami Beach police responded  to the scene and here's what the police chief says happened next.       
CHIEF DANIEL OATES, MIAMI BEACH POLICE: He went inside the barbershop, he was urged to come out. After a period of time, he had armed himself in the  barbershop with a straight-edged razor and after a period of time he came out.  He took his shirt off and he came out. And he was challenged by the officers in  the street, at some point during that confrontation, he did raise his hand with  the straight- edged razor in it and he was shot.       
MACHADO: Now, the officer who fired his gun is a six-year veteran of the department. We're also told there is body camera video of the shooting, but they  are not releasing that for now -- Poppy.   
HARLOW: All right. Alina Machado live for us in Miami. Thank you very much. We'll let you know when we hear more from police and also get some of those  other camera angles, you would assume there might be dash cam video, as well.  Alina, thank you.    Straight ahead, new police reports on a fatal shooting of a 17-year- old in  Chicago. Those reports, according to the Chicago Tribune, revealing a much  different account than what you all saw play out on dash cam video released just  a few weeks ago.    We'll take you live to Rosa Flores in Chicago, next.   
 HARLOW: All right. We're following new developments today in the deadly shooting of Laquan McDonald, he is the teenager holding a knife who was  shot 16 times by a Chicago police officer. CNN has now obtained newly released  police reports from the incident that contain the officer's accounts of that  shooting that happened in October of 2014. But those accounts from the officers  to the department are dramatically different than what we've now all seen play  out on that dash cam video. We want to warn you the video, the images of the  shooting are graphic, but it is important to see how they compare to these now  released police reports.    CNN's Rosa Flores live with me from Chicago. A dramatic difference and not just  a difference of one police officer's account, but six officers' accounts a year  plus ago and then what we all saw play out on the video.   
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's the big headline, Poppy, and my producers and I have been going through that report page by page and we counted all of the  accounts, and that is what is shocking. Not only does Jason Van Dyke's account  not match what the video is saying, but five other officers, including a  sergeant who recovered the video and reviewed all the witness accounts. He says  that everything matches, but, you know, let me take you through it detail by  detail. If we look at this video like Poppy mentioned, it's graphic, so you've  got to be careful if you're at home and there are children around, but let me  take you through this. You see Laquan McDonald walking on the street. And you  can see that officers respond to the scene and on the left-hand side of your  screen you can see there are two officers with guns drawn.    One of those officers is Jason Van Dyke. Now, we know that six seconds after  arriving on scene he starts shooting his weapon. Now, let me take you through  the police report. Here is what Jason Van Dyke said, and I'm going to quote  here, he was swinging, he's referring to McDonald, he was swinging the knife in  an aggressive, exaggerated manner, he goes on to say, McDonald raised the knife  across his chest and over his shoulder pointing the knife at Van Dyke and  attempting to kill Van Dyke. Now, here's his reaction, in defense of his life,  Van Dyke backpedaled and fired his handgun at McDonald to stop the attack. Now,  if you see the video, you can see that Laquan McDonald is walking away from  officers and then falls to the ground.   
HARLOW: Right.  
FLORES: The actual angle of the camera changes so you don't see the police officers anymore, but here is what, according to the police report happens,  McDonald fell to the ground but continued to move and continued to grasp the  knife, refusing to let it go. Now, we know that the officer continues shooting.  Here's what he says, he says McDonald appeared to be attempting to get up, all  the while continuing to point the knife at Van Dyke. If you listen to those  accounts and you listen -- go ahead, Poppy.   
HARLOW: And just -- I want to talk to the control room, because for some reason we're not seeing the video play out as you're describing it to us, it's just  these still frames and I'm going to have them tell me as we continue to talk if  that's -- if we're able to roll the actual video, because that's so important to  see the actual video play out to play that and then describe what you've said.  So, as we rerack that, here you go, let's just look at this. This is not the  correct video. This is actually at a fast food restaurant, so we don't have the  right video, I'm so sorry, Rosa. But let's talk more about what he was doing  before he was shot. Just sort of the back story here that's very important. 
FLORES: Yes, definitely so. So the back story here is that according to police reports, Laquan McDonald was meandering, that he had punctured the tire of a  police cruiser, that he had a knife in his hand, and, indeed, according to  authorities, that knife was recovered with the three-inch blade and that he had  that blade and that he punctured the tire of a police cruiser. And so that's why  you see this response. We know that eight officers, at least eight officers,  responded to the scene and were at that scene. Now, like you mentioned, now that  we get to see the police reports, the accounts of six of those police officers  don't jive with what we're looking at when we look at this dash cam video, which  raises a lot of questions -- Poppy.   
 HARLOW: Sure, and I think Rosa what makes it all so just so much more sort of perplexing is the fact that the city of Chicago settled with the  McDonald family for $5 million before anyone in the public had seen that video.  But, obviously, they had read the statements of the police officers. I mean, how  does that affect this investigation as it moves forward?   
FLORES: You know, we should mention that this community has been protesting, hundreds of people have marched the streets asking for the release of this video  before it was released. There was a lot of outrage, and now we kind of  understand why, because there was this sense that the full story was not out  there. Now let me give you the chain of events. After this shooting, the family  settled with the city for $5 million. We checked court records, we were trying  to find court documents, to find out more information. There are none because  they settled before filing a lawsuit. Now, after that the city fought for months  not to release that video. It took a journalist fighting in court and getting a  civil judge to decide in his favor for this video to be released, and that's why  we're seeing the video more than a year after that shooting happened -- Poppy.   
HARLOW: All right. Rosa Flores, Rosa, thank you very much for that reporting. Again, a big contrast between those police officers' statements in the wake of  the shooting and what you saw play out on dash cam video. Let's dig deeper and  get some analysis from CNN legal analyst and criminal defense attorney Philip  Holloway joining us now from Atlanta. Philip, I'm sorry I can't show our viewers  that dash cam video in full, because it is important for context, a lot of  people have already seen it, you can go to CNN.com and see it there, as well.  But the fact is, what you see is him running down the street, then veering a  little bit to the right, not going at police officers when he is shot 16 times  in 15 seconds, but then you have six police officers giving a radically  different account in the wake of the shooting. One of them saying, as you heard  Rosa report, that their life was in danger, that he had the knife up against  pointing it towards one of the officers. What's the most troubling discrepancy  to you?   
PHILIP HOLLOWAY, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: I don't really know where to begin. You know, Poppy, police reports have to be accurate, they've got to be complete, and  they've got to be reliable, otherwise we cannot have any faith in the accuracy  of the end result of any investigation, let alone one that's this complex. There  are lots of discrepancies, for example, one of the officers who was on scene and  wrote a report said that three of them had been battered, okay, by the deceased.  And that, obviously, did not happen. We didn't see that on the video. And when a  police investigator has access to all these other officers' reports and has  access to the video and they write in their conclusionary statement essentially  that everything matches up and now we see right before our eyes that it doesn't  match up, that is extremely troubling.    The question is, why did this happen? Was this a situation where these other  officers and perhaps the investigators were trying to circle the wagons in  defense of their comrade, or was it perhaps they simply got it wrong, they were  inaccurate, they had inaccurate perceptions, or what, we just don't know, but we  need to get to the bottom of that question.   
HARLOW: Absolutely, and this investigation certainly does continue. That officer now charged with first-degree murder. Philip Holloway, thank you very much for  that. We'll stay on this story for you. I appreciate it.    Coming up next, he's had to come to grips with the death of his daughter, an  unbelievable tragedy, now Andy Parker says he is hopeful change is coming when  it comes to curbing gun violence in America. Andy Parker is with me, next.   
 HARLOW: Today, the families of 14 innocent people still trying to come to terms with the unthinkable pain of losing their loved one in a senseless  tragedy like what we saw in San Bernardino, California, this week. Emotions too  familiar -- far too for Andy Parker, he is the father of television reporter  Alison Parker, who was brutally shot and killed on live television by a deranged  former co- worker. In an opinion piece this week he writes, "While my emotions  were still raw, I vowed on national television to do whatever it takes to end  gun violence. What does it mean? It means speaking out for sensible gun laws, it  also means standing up for political leaders willing to do the right thing and  calling out the ones that don't."    Andy Parker joins me now. Andy, thank you for being with me.   
ANDY PARKER, DAUGHTER KILLED ON LIVE TELEVISION IN AUGUST: Thanks, Poppy. One of these days we're going to have happier things to talk about.   
HARLOW: I hope so. How are you doing, how's your family doing in the wake of Alison's death?   
PARKER: Well, you know, we're hanging in there, but every time you see a tragedy like this and, you know, I just realize that it wasn't even a week ago that,  well, I guess it was a week ago, that the Planned Parenthood shooting happened,  and then you have the San Bernardino shooting happen, and it just -- it's like a  wound that just won't heal. It brings back terrible memories and I know exactly  what those families are going through. They are now members of a club that no  one wants to join 
. HARLOW: You're right. You wrote in this op-ed that the needleon gun violence prevention is turning, and that struck me, because I thought, wow, for him to write that and feel that, even in the wake of the Colorado  shooting, the Planned Parenthood shooting, this shooting, what are you seeing,  Andy, what's changing?   
PARKER: You know, well, I'll give you a good example. I mean, with the help of my Governor Terry McAuliffe, who has been the champion on this issue, we elected  a gun sense candidate in Jeremy McPike in the Virginia Senate in a typically  Republican district. We narrowly lost in a very heavy Republican district  running a candidate that was a gun sense candidate, too, so we're getting  closer.   
 HARLOW: You wrote in this op-ed that "the needle on gun violence prevention is turning," and that struck me, because I thought, wow, for him to  write that and feel that, even in the wake of the Colorado shooting, the Planned  Parenthood shooting, this shooting. What are you seeing, Andy, what's changing?   
PARKER: You know, well, I'll give you a good example. With the help of my governor, who's been a champion on this issue, we elected a gun sense candidate  in Jeremy McPike in the Senate in a typically Republican district. We narrowly  lost in a very heavy Republican district running a candidate that was a gun  sense candidate, too, so we're getting closer. I think we're very hopeful, and I  think that people, you know, if you just look at The New York Times for the  first time in 100 years, their op-ed, their opinion page, was on the front page  of The New York Times yesterday. People had enough, and I think the needle is  moving and you can see it. I can feel it, and it's going to happen, but it's  still -- it's still a marathon, not going to be a sprint, but it will happen.   
HARLOW: Andy, some numbers here that have gotten a lot of attention certainly right now, over 2,000 times the government accountability office is now  reporting between 2004 and 2014 suspected potential terrorists, people who are  on the terror watch list, have successfully, legally purchased guns from  licensed dealers in America. These are people that are on the no fly list, the  president, President Obama today calling that, quote, "insane." But a bill, a  bill to stop that failed in the Senate this week. A bipartisan proposed  bipartisan bill, do you think both parties will get behind blocking folks on  that list from buying guns?   
PARKER: I think at some point they are going to have to. I go beyond calling it insane, frankly, if you are -- what you're doing and what Mike McCaul, who is  the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, he voted right along with  the NRA to allow these potential terrorists to be able to purchase guns. They  can't get on an airplane, but they can buy guns. And someone -- the definition  to me of treason, well, the definition of treason is giving aid and comfort to  an enemy. And we don't know -- I don't think we know exactly yet that this is a  terrorist attack in San Bernardino, but, you know, even if it's not, if you're  allowing suspected terrorists to obtain weapons, to me that's treason.   
HARLOW: Let me ask you this, there are -- I know where you fall politically on this, but we also heard some Republicans, we heard the House speaker this week  come out, Paul Ryan, and talk about mental health and that's not getting enough  of a focus. Obviously, that, you know, was, obviously, a contributing factor in  the murder of your daughter, with this deranged coworker. Republican Tim Murphy  of pennsylvania, psychologist, has been pushing for years and has a lot of  bipartisan support behind this bill focusing on mental health in terms of  funding, in terms of assessment, in terms of family members having knowledge of  what's going on with their loved ones who are suffering from this. Do you want  to see more on that front, as well, Andy, along with gun legislation?   
PARKER: Well, I've always, you know, any opportunity I've had, I've said it's one piece of the puzzle. It is like treating cancer. There's not one, you know,  typically isn't one treatment that's going to cure it. And certainly, the mental  health aspect is a key component, but as I've always said, we don't have the  market cornered on mental illness in the world, but we do have the market  cornered on people that are disturbed and mentally ill that have the ability to  have access to firearms. And that's the low hanging fruit, you know, do  universal background checks, close the gun show loopholes, it's not going to  save every life, but it's going to save a lot. And that's something that we have  to do. Absolutely we have to pursue these mental health issues, but what Paul  Ryan and his colleagues are not talking about and won't talk about, but are  going to, is that we have to do something to address the gun issue. Bob  Goodlatte, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, has 100 bills on gun  legislation that he will not address, and told me to my face he would not hold  hearings on them. So, you know, that's going to change.   
HARLOW: Andy, as we go to break, I'd like to show our viewers some more photos of your daughter, Alison, just to remember her, that smile, that face, that  life. I'm so sorry for your loss, Andy. She's in our hearts.    Thank you.   
PARKER: I know she is. Thank you, Poppy.  
HARLOW: All right, to politics now. Republican front-runner, Donald Trump, left the stage just a short time ago after speaking to cheering crowds in Iowa,  pumping up his supporters with less than two months to go before the  all-important Iowa caucuses. This week, he defied his skeptics, extended a  significant lead in the latest CNN/ORC poll. Look at that. He is 20 points now  ahead of his closest rival, which is now Senator Ted Cruz. That is a national  poll.    I want to bring in national correspondent, Sunlen Serfaty, on the ground in  Davenport, Iowa.    The reaction there from people, I know that he did talk specifically about  family members of the San Bernardino shooters at that speech in Davenport. What  did he say, how did the crowd react?   
SUNLEN SERFATY, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Poppy. Donald Trump was really making the broader point that he thinks the government needs to  better monitor the families of suspected terrorists that could be in the United  States, and he really went after the mother and the sister of the shooter more  strongly than he has in the past, really insinuating that things that the sister  said he thinks shows that she knew the plans and intentions of the shooters  ahead of time.    Here's what he told the crowd here moments ago.       
 DONALD TRUMP,, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE & CEO, TRUMP ORGANIZATION: They've got all sorts of bombs, pipe bombs, all sorts of crap all over the  apartment. Oh, I didn't see. I watched the sister of the guy last night on  television, right, and I'm pretty good at this stuff, and I watched her, she had  the veil, the whole thing, she's talking about the brother. First of all, her  brother was killed a few days ago, she's talking like -- in fact, I think she  said I think I have to go now, my time's up. Right? So matter of fact. I thought  she was lying so much. I'm good at this. I thought she was a total liar. I  watched her being interviewed last night, right? She lied about him. She didn't  know he felt this way. She knew. And a lot of other people knew, too. And we  better be vigilant.       
SERFATY: Now you heard the crowd there reacting. There was definitely some applause at times when Donald Trump specifically mentioned the sister's  comments, of course, comments that she's made that she did not know anything,  had no reason to suspect this ahead of time.    Also interesting today, Poppy, Trump also used the issue of fiance visas that  have been held under more scrutiny since the shooting. Of course, the female  shooter originally coming to the United States honored that fiance visa. Trump  saying he would not rule out eliminating this type of visa altogether, and in  the coming week, will make a formal statement specifically about this visa  program.   
HARLOW: How did people react, Sunlen, when he said essentially arming those county workers who were murdered in that office event, would have prevented this  or certainly led to less causalities, how did the crowd react to that?   
SERFATY: This is a crowd where that sort of argument works very well. People here come to see Donald Trump, many who are very pro gun rights and believe very  strongly in the second amendment and believe that that sort of argument is one  that they want to potentially see in a president. So it got a good reception  here. That is an argument Donald Trump has been making since Paris attacks,  saying imagine if people in that crowd, just three people in that crowd had had  guns, that they could defend themselves. So certainly Donald Trump thinks this  is a winning argument, especially to this sort of crowd here in Iowa -- Poppy?   
HARLOW: Sunlen, thank you very much. Again, less than two months away from those critical Iowa caucuses. Appreciate the reporting tonight.    Straight ahead, you saw it right there, Donald Trump on a roll nationwide and  particularly in Iowa after yet another poll has him far ahead of his rivals.       
TRUMP: And about what happened to us just now with the two sleaze bags that did what they did, where they killed 14 people, probably end up being more than that  by the time it's over with because people are in very, very serious shape.       
HARLOW: But some in the GOP worried about what it means for the party. We will talk about it with Ben and Marc, next. Stay with me.       
ANNOUNCER: Our heroes don't fly, they soar.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't see barriers, I see solutions.      
ANNOUNCER: Connecting with the communities along the way helps re- establish your faith in humanity.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Love you.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Love you, too.      
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Don't give up on yourself, because you're still worthy.  
ANNOUNCER: See the stars come out to celebrate the change makers.  
CATHY GRIFFIN, COMEDIENNE: We all love to pay tribute, and this is a way we really can.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People who are living the work they are doing every day.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's really, really, really inspiring.   ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR, A.C. 360 & CNN HOST, CNN HEROES, AN ALL- STAR 
TRIBUTE: Welcome to "CNN Heroes."  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Please join me in honoring "CNN Hero."  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There is no time to waste.  
ANNOUNCER: The top-10 "CNN Heroes" of 2015.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's an honor to be recognized.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is an amazing honor.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you!      
ANNOUNCER: Join Anderson Cooper for "CNN Heroes, An All-Star Tribute," tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m.   
 HARLOW: Donald Trump on a roll in Iowa and nationwide, cheering crowds gathering in Iowa today, greeting the Republican front-runner. Less than  two months to go before the Iowa caucuses, Donald Trump extending his  significant lead over his fellow Republicans. Look at this. This is the latest  CNN/ORC poll showing Donald Trump at 36 percent, his closest competitor, Ted  Cruz, 16 percent.    Let's bring in our CNN political commentators, Marc Lamont Hill, a professor at  Morehouse College; Ben Ferguson, host of "The Ben Ferguson Show." They don't  agree on much, sometimes they agree on some things, and don't agree on Donald  Trump.    Let's talk about the long-term game plan here, guys. If Trump wins the  nomination, these numbers have been steady and rising for months and months now.  Anyone that wrote him off certainly is looking at these and saying, we were  wrong. Former Republican governor, Robert List, telling CNN, quote, "Let me read  this to you here, people are reluctant to take him on because he lashes back  like is." That is a quote.    Ben, why are Republicans such as that governor so turned off by Donald Trump?  The people are supporting him. Can he do anything to win over sort of the  establishment?   
BEN FERGUSON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: No, but that's probably a good thing. I mean, the establishment, many people have not been excited about the  establishment. Remember, this is the same establishment that's against Ted Cruz,  same establishment that's against Ben Carson, this is the same establishment  that's against Carly Fiorina, so there is an outsider time right now in the GOP,  and you have the old guys that are holding on for dear life. I think the other  thing and the reason why you're seeing Donald Trump expand his lead is he is a  complete polar opposite of what we are seeing from the president, from the White  House, specifically on issues like ISIS and dealing with Muslim extremism and  terrorism in this country this week. And so when you have things like Paris and  you have things like San Bernardino and you have someone that's as blunt as  Donald Trump, even if some of the things he's saying, A, unrealistic, or, B,  extreme, the fact that he's willing to admit there's an enemy that's declared  war on us has made him incredibly popular and why his numbers are where they are  right now.   
 HARLOW: It's interesting, you've got this big lead, Trump seems to be switching gears, possibly preparing for how he will exactly take on Hillary  Clinton if she is, indeed, a Democratic nominee. I want you to listen to this.       
TRUMP: She -- I know her. Did you ever notice, she goes out, she goes out, and makes an appearance it's brutal. I don't negotiate. Whatever they ask me, I do  whatever, she'll come to Iowa. She'll do a couple minutes in Iowa, meaning a  short period of time and you don't see her for five or six days. She goes home.  She goes to sleep. I'm telling you. Hillary, you ever notice, you don't see her  for four or five days and puts on her panel suit and goes out and does a press  conference.           
TRUMP: She throws on the old pantsuit.      
HARLOW: Why are we talking, Marc, about what people are wearing?  
MARC LAMONT HILL, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Because we're Donald Trump. He did the same thing Carly Fiorina. I think it's one thing to make fun of Ben Carson  and make fun of Jeb Bush, those are candidates who don't have the political p  political maturity or strategy if he makes it to the general election or  comments like that occasionally, very tough time winning not just female voters  but over the majority of the American people. They find comments awkward, crude,  disgusting, and unworthy of a presidential candidate.   
HARLOW: I want to talk about this leaked memo from Senate Republican strategist saying that Trump is winning because voters believe he is authentic, he is  independent, and that the Senate candidates should intimidate that but avoid  controversies.    Ben, can you do that? Can you be truly authentic and avoid controversies? You're  going to make someone mad.   
FERGUSON: No, I don't think so. This is one of the things the Republican Party has gotten wrong. Sometimes you have to allow candidates to be who they are. The  same reason why Bernie Sanders is doing so well consistently early on when he  did not have the network Hillary had. He said I'm Socialist and earned it and  explain what he meant by it. Not necessarily popular but people saw him as a  real person and they rallied behind him and I think that's something that these  political wonks, you know, within each party need to get their heads out of  their rear end and realize being this perfect candidate or not taking chances is  not what people want. That's what they hate in Washington and hate about  Congress and hate about typical politicians. And I think you see Donald Trump  saying, I might offend you and say things you can't stand but I promise you'll  get a real candidate and person, and nobody is going to control me.   
HARLOW: I got 30 seconds, Marc, and then I got breaking news, go.  
LAMONT HILL: Being a real candidate it's important to be yourself. But once we find out who you are, if that authentic self is a jerk or an idiot, not talking  about Donald Trump, but, for example, if you're any of those things, you  probably shouldn't be president. At some point, voters will say, we know it's  really you, Donald Trump, thanks for letting us know, but no thanks.   
HARLOW: Marc, Ben, thank you both.      
HARLOW: And breaking news just into us here at CNN.  
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.  
HARLOW: Following more breaking news in the shooting in San Bernardino, California. Law enforcement telling us at CNN police conducted a search at home  of a man who originally purchased some of the guns that were used by those two  killers.    I want to go straight to Stephanie Elam, live for us in California.    Stephanie, what do we know?   
 STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, Poppy. We understand this has to do with two rifles used in the shooting. They weren't purchased just  recently but what we understand is that there has been a warrant that was filed  to look into the House of the person who did buy these two guns. The search was  conducted early this morning. Of course, it was filed under seal so we do not  know if anything was taken away from the House or what they may have found  there, but this relating back to the person who originally purchased these two  rifles used in the shooting. We know that being awhile ago but finding  information and looking into perhaps if there was any connection there, the  latest development -- Poppy?   
HARLOW: Important, too, because as we've been reporting, it's believed all the rifles were bought legally. We'll see what that turns up.    Stephanie, thank you. Appreciate it.    I'm Poppy Harlow. And I'll be back and we'll be back with you live, 7:00 p.m.  eastern, 4:00 p.m. pacific.    "SMERCONISH" begins right after a short break. Stay with us.   
 MICHAEL SMERCONISH, CNN HOST: I'm Michael Smerconish. Here we go again. That's what my colleague, Brooke Baldwin, said here on CNN Wednesday as  the latest news started trickling out of San Bernardino. She meant semiautomatic  weapons, innocent victims, lockdown, manhunt, shootout, fear, outrage. But here  we go again sadly also applies to what came after. Politicians immediately  suited up in their usual jerseys and resorted to the same old playbooks.  Republicans again said it was time to pray. "The New York Daily News" ran a  controversial cover noting that "God wouldn't fix this." Democrats again made  calls for gun control. "The New York Times" tried something different, putting  an editorial on the front page of this morning's newspaper, the first time they  have done that since 1920, calling for the outlawing of civilian ownership of  weapons capable of mass killing.   
