    
HIGHLIGHT: President Obama discussed ISIS, Russia, Turkey during climate change summit in Paris. Russia arming jets with air-to-air missiles. Ash Carter and  General Joseph Dunford to testify on U.S. strategy on fighting ISIS in Syria and  Iraq. Jury selection resumed in Officer William Porter regarding death of  Freddie Gray. Jabari Dean arrested for allegedly posting threats online tied to  Chicago cop shooting of Laquan McDonald. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter  confirmed Special Forces troops to be sent on the ground in Syria.     
 CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: And good morning. I'm Carol Costello. Thank you so much for joining me.    Right now on Capitol Hill, the U.S. strategy in Syria front and center. Defense  Secretary Ash Carter and Joint Chiefs chair, General Joseph Dunford, are about  to testify before the House Armed Services Committee. Of course, we'll keep an  eye on it and keep you posted.    One of the biggest gatherings of world leaders in history meeting in Paris to  discuss global warming but with fresh terror attacks erupting in the city just  two weeks ago, ISIS has shoved its way into the spotlight.    On the sidelines of the summit President Obama met with allies and Russia's  president to rally a unified strategy against ISIS.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Continue to be a serious threat for some time to come. But I'm confident that we are on the winning side of  this. And that ultimately Russia is going to recognize the threat that ISIL  poses to its country, to its people, is the most significant and that they need  to align themselves with those of us who are fighting ISIL.       
COSTELLO: Senior White House correspondent Jim Acosta is in Paris. He joins us with more.    Good morning, Jim.   
JIM ACOSTA, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Carol. President Obama is on his way back to Washington after attending this climate summit here  in Paris and then a news conference wrapping up his participation at this  summit. The president sounded like he hasn't made much headway with Russian  president Vladimir Putin over what to do about ISIS in Syria.    President Obama told reporters during this news conference that he believes  Russia will continue to bombard targets other than ISIS, namely those moderate  opposition forces that are trying to fight against Syria's leader Bashar  al-Assad, and the president said Putin still is backing Assad in that bloody  civil war. But the president went on to say during this news conference that he  believes that he has hope that Putin will eventually change his mind, change his  calculus in that crisis. Here's what he had to say.       
OBAMA: Mr. Putin recognizes there is not going to be a military resolution to the situation in Syria. The Russians now have been there for several weeks, over  a month. And I think fair-minded reporters who have looked at the situation  would say that the situation hasn't changed significantly.    In the interim, Russia's lost a commercial passenger jet. You've seen another  jet shot down. There have been losses in terms of Russian personnel. And I think  Mr. Putin understands that with Afghanistan fresh in the memory for him to  simply get bogged down in an inconclusive and paralyzing civil conflict, is not  the outcome that he's looking for.       
ACOSTA: Now on the climate talks that are taking place here in Paris, the president sounded much more confident than he is about ISIS, about reaching an  agreement with the other countries of the world for some sort of bond on  reducing climate emissions, carbon emissions that cause global warming over the  coming decades.    But, Carol, when he was reminded at a news conference that some of that would be  determinative by the next president, that the next president could scuttle  essentially any climate deal that is reached here, he said that he was confident  that Democrats will retain the White House and that any climate deal that's  reached here in Paris will continue to live on -- Carol.   
COSTELLO: All right. Jim Acosta reporting live from Paris, thank you.   The crisis in Syria might have just gotten more complicated because Russia has  now activated one of the most advanced air defense missile systems in the world.  Meet the S-400, a massive weapon system that has the potential to take out  targets flying almost anywhere in the war-torn nation.    Russia has also reportedly armed bomber jets with air-to-air missiles, meaning  they can now take out warplanes in the sky. Of course, this is in response to  Turkey's downing of their warplane. But it's also leaving the United States  trying to figure out what to do next.    Barbara Starr live at the Pentagon with more on that. Good morning.   
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Carol. As Russia ups the ante with this new weapons systems in Syria, the Pentagon looking at how to  deal with all of this. It's not that they believe the Russians are aiming for  them, that the Russians are going to shoot down any U.S. aircraft, but it does  put a new Russian military capability into the air, on to the ground, that U.S.  pilots simply are going to have to be aware of and decide how to cope with.    So it is a very complex situation, getting even more complex. At this hour,  Defense Secretary Ash Carter, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General  Joe Dunford, testifying at the hearing about to open on Capitol Hill, the House  Armed Services Committee, to hear from both these men.     What Secretary Carter is going to have to accomplish at this hearing  may be very significant. He is going to have to lay out some new initiatives.  Some so-called accelerants, if you will, for U.S. military policy to try and  show additional progress against ISIS. So one of the key things to be listening  for in the coming minutes will be what Carter has to say about the possibility  of putting even more U.S. Special Operations Forces into Iraq, in Syria, to go  on raids, to go after high-value targets, to collect intelligence, to be outside  of those sheltered military bases right on the front lines. Carter testifying  now, expected in the coming minutes, actually, to talk about all of this --  Carol.   
COSTELLO: And I know you're listening to that hearing so we'll get back to you.   Barbara Starr, thanks so much.    Want to talk a little bit more about what Barbara was talking about. With me now  chief national security correspondent Jim Sciutto and the former undersecretary  of state for political affairs for President Obama, Wendy Sherman.    Welcome to both of you.    So, Wendy, when Barbara says that Secretary Carter has to come up with these new  initiatives and he's going to set these new initiatives before this committee,  what is she talking about?   
WENDY SHERMAN, FORMER UNDERSECRETARY OF STATE FOR POLITICAL AFFAIRS: Well, I think what she's talking about is what President Obama has also talked about,  and that is the intensification of the use of our special forces to provide  advice, to help create the targets for American, French and perhaps British  action in the air because our progress on the ground is only as good as the  targets we have. And it's very difficult to ascertain those targets, unless  you've got somebody on the ground who knows what they're doing.    And the opposition has made some progress, but they don't have the skill set  that the American military has. So we're not talking about ground troops because  there really is very little support for doing that. But I think we'll hear a lot  from Secretary Carter and he's actually going to be up here at Harvard at the  end of the day, speaking at the Kennedy School Forum. And I'm sure he'll  elaborate and answer a lot of the questions that you all have about how we're  going forward.    I think it's also important to really focus on all the other things that we have  to do to deal with what's happening in Syria. And the president addressed some  of those in his press conference today in terms of dealing with foreign  fighters, finance, recruitment, taking care of our visa waiver system to make  sure that our borders are secure. And to really look at this in a holistic way.  This is not just a military effort that we're waging. It is a multifront effort  that includes the deal that was made between Turkey and the European Union, that  helped them with their refugee and migrant crisis.   
COSTELLO: Well, here's the thing, though, Jim. So you're going to maybe send more Special Ops troops in, right? But Russia is still sort of going rogue, so  isn't -- doesn't that present a danger to the American troops that may go there  to gather intelligence on the ground?   
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, there is a danger. The U.S. is concerned about the confliction on the air. They're concerned about  this new weapons system. And the president said in his comments today that  there's not going to be no massive expansion of the U.S. ground presence there.  He said there's no military solution to the problem and he also said even more  broadly that leadership in Washington is too often defined by the president  sending troops into harm's way.    That said, the U.S. has been gradually, incrementally expanding the role of  ground forces in both Iraq and Syria over the course of the last year. I mean,  you remember when they started, they said there will be no ground troops. The  fact is, there are some 3,000 troops on the ground, though not combat troops,  but they've gone outside the wire. They're now in Anbar Province. We now have  special forces on the ground in Syria, a place where there were no boots on the  ground.    On the table is a more aggressive posture for those forces, closer to the front  line, calling in airstrike. And the fact is, they've already been in that  position. We saw a little more than a month ago U.S. Delta Force, special  operator killed when he went to assist his Kurdish partners who were in a ground  fight. I mean, that's combat by -- by any other name. It won't be a big ground  presence, but the fact is they're closer to harm's way and they've been getting  closer over the last several months.   
COSTELLO: OK. But, still, Wendy, I mean, Russia is bringing in those missile defense systems, it's kind of like flexing its muscle, isn't it? So who knows  what Vladimir Putin will do. And how do you reign them in if you're President  Obama? I know they had a chat on the sidelines of this global warming  conference, but do you think that was enough?   
SHERMAN: I think there will be ongoing conversations. We've seen the conversations between Vladimir Putin and Barack Obama intensify in the last  weeks, so I would expect that to continue along with Secretary Kerry speaking  with Minister Lavrov on a regular basis. And the president said that at the same  time that we're going to deal with these military issues, and of course trying  to de-conflict, as Jim pointed out, we also want to make sure that we try to  give diplomacy a chance.     And so I would expect that Secretary Kerry will use his presence at  the climate talks, which will be quite intense, particularly in the last week of  the climate talks, to have sideline meetings to try to move the diplomatic  solution forward. And as the president pointed out, that will mean resolving  what happens to Assad, but it also means creating a transitional governing  council, it means a new constitution, it means bringing all of our coalition  together to try to end this civil war in Syria so that all of our resources can  be focused on dealing with ISIL, with Daesh.    There's a lot at stake here. And as the president pointed out, we have to walk  and chew gum. That's why he's at the climate conference in Paris because quite  frankly if we don't deal with climate, we're going to have a lot more conflicts  around the world as people try to get scarce resources. And we will have many  other points of conflict and need for our military troops, which American people  do not support.   
COSTELLO: All right. I have to leave it there. Wendy Sherman, Jim Sciutto, thanks to both of you.    Still to come in the NEWSROOM, a Baltimore cop soon to be on trial in the death  of Freddie Gray. How much longer will it take to find a jury that's impartial?   
 COSTELLO: The second day of jury selection is under way for Officer William Porter. Porter is the first of six officers on trial for Freddie Gray's  death. Court sketches show him appearing for the first time yesterday as  protesters chanted outside.    The first jury pool saw roughly 75 potential jurors questioned, 40 people in  that group were African-American. All interviewed say they are familiar with  Gray's death and the financial settlement his family reached with the city of  Baltimore.    Will the judge have more luck finding unbiased members today or at least  uninformed maybe?    Jean Casarez live in Baltimore with more. Good morning, Jean.   
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning. You know, Carol, it's really raining today, very hard, and so there are no protesters outside at this point.  But there's a lot going on inside the courtroom. We understand that 75 new  potential jurors are seated in that courtroom right now and the judge is asking  them general questions that they will raise their hands to. Such as, do they  know about the trial? Just like you said, yesterday, 100 percent of them did.  And do they know about the civil settlement? 100 percent of them did yesterday.    And, you know, I have covered many, many high-profile trials throughout this  country. I've never seen an entire jury pool know about a case. But remember, it  was only seven months ago. A very short duration of time, really, that Baltimore  went through so many things.    Another question they'll be asked is if they have been a victim of crime or  associated with crime at all. Yesterday, 38 out of the 75, which is about half,  said that they had been a victim of crime, investigated by law enforcement,  charged by law enforcement, convicted, incarcerated or have current charges.  That's a lot. Almost 50 percent of that jury pool.    Also want to talk about William Porter because yesterday when I sat in that  courtroom, I saw him very engaged with his attorneys. They would talk with him.  He would talk with them. Now this is at the end of the day when they came out of  that conference room where they had the individual questioning. But he was very  involved, very interested. And this afternoon is when they will have that  individual questioning again where everyone outside of the ear shot of the  general public and the media asks the particular questions. What's your opinion?  Do you have an opinion you can't set aside in this case?    And remember, the defendant will be right there, listening to every single  potential juror's answer in that conference room. At the end of the day, we'll  hear probably that some will not be coming back, some will be joining those from  yesterday tomorrow. Once again so Wednesday, I think, is the first day we could  have a jury -- Carol.   
COSTELLO: All right. Jean Casarez reporting live from Baltimore, thank you.   The Chicago officer who shot and killed Laquan McDonald is out of jail this  morning. A barrage of media on hand as Officer Jason Van Dyke posted bond. And  while Van Dyke's out, another man is in. 21-year- old Jabari Dean. Police say  Dean posted that online threat, targeting the University of Chicago, forcing the  campus to close. Dean's threat was apparently to avenge Laquan McDonald's death.    CNN's Ryan Young live in Chicago with more. Good morning.   
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Carol. Look, a lot of questions about this. We were on that campus and reported to you live yesterday.  We were on that campus when it was absolutely silent because people were worried  about these threats. We were wondering what the specific nature of the threats  were. Now we have an online posting that we can read to you that Jabari Dean  apparently posted online, a popular Web site.    It says, "This is my only warning, at 10:00 a.m. on Monday morning, I'm going to  the campus quad at the University of Chicago. I'll be armed with an M-4 Carbine  and two Desert Eagles all fully loaded. I will execute approximately 16 white  male students and-or staff, which is the same number of time McDonald was  killed. I then will die killing any number of white policemen that I can in the  process. This is not a joke. I am to do my part to rid the world of the white  devils. I expect you to do the same."    Now Jabari Dean was in court just yesterday. His uncle spoke to people outside  saying, look, he is a cream puff and he is a nerd. He would never do anything  like this. The FBI went to the house, did not find any weapons inside that  house, and we're told, because of these charges that he's facing, he could face  five years in prison, there will be a 1:00 bond hearing this afternoon here in  Chicago. And they believe he may be released to his mother, who he lived with.  But, obviously, these were serious threats that closed the campus and the Hyde  Park neighborhood -- Carol.   
 COSTELLO: Ryan Young reporting live from Chicago. Thank you.   Still to come in the NEWSROOM, Donald Trump says some Muslims, thousands and  thousands of Muslims in New Jersey, celebrated after the 9/11 attacks. Does the  former New York City mayor, Rudy Giuliani, agree? We'll hear from him next.   
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN Breaking News.  
COSTELLO: All right. We've been telling you the House Armed Services Committee is meeting in Washington. The intent for the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of  Staff and Defense secretary to lay out the strategy when it comes to ISIS in  Syria. Ash Carter is now testifying. A short time ago he said something very  interesting. Let's listen.       
ASHTON CARTER, DEFENSE SECRETARY: To build on that momentum, we're sending, on President Obama's orders, and the chairman's and my advice, Special Operation  Forces personnel to Syria to support the fight against ISIL.     American special operators bring a unique suite of capabilities that  make them force multipliers. They will help us garner valuable ground  intelligence, further enhance our air campaign, and above all, enable local  forces that can regain and then hold territory occupied by ISIL. Where we find  further opportunity to leverage such capability, we're prepared to expand it.    Next, in the south of Syria, we're also taking advantage of opportunities to  open a southern front on ISIL by enabling fighters trained and equipped by us  and other coalition partners to conduct strikes inside Syria.       
COSTELLO: Interesting, right? Our Pentagon correspondent Barbara Starr joins us now.    So when Ash Carter says he wants to send more special ops forces into Syria, how  many is he talking about?   
STARR: Good morning, Carol. Well, first up, he's talking off the top there about the 50 or so Special Operations Forces that are scheduled to arrive in northern  Syria really at any point now. This has been in the works for some weeks. But  Carter does go on and he talks about the establishment of what he calls an  expeditionary force. Very important bureaucratic words, but very important  military words. Expeditionary. That means what he is talking about are even more  forces on the ground, mobile.    Expeditionary, it means they can go from point A to point B, and these will be  Special Operation Forces, in addition to those 50 or so in Syria, that will be  able to go on very dangerous missions, go on raids, go on missions looking for  high-value ISIS targets, free hostages, go on intelligence-gathering missions.  They will be outside the wires, so to speak, and not just sitting on bases in  Iraq. They will be able to operate with Iraqi and Kurdish forces in Iraq. They  also -- these additional forces could be sent into Syria.    So all of this adds up to a significant step forward today. Not about the number  of troops that are going to be put on the ground, but what they're going to be  doing. This is further expansion of what the Pentagon and the White House have  been talking about. What Carter is really trying to accomplish here today is  list a number of initiatives to show forward movement. They have been facing  some withering criticism from Republicans and Democrats that they're just simply  not doing enough -- pardon me -- to fight ISIS now today, giving us this list of  initiatives, this list of what they're calling accelerants, to try and show some  really rapid forward movement.    It will come with U.S. boots on the ground, U.S. Special Operations Forces,  going out there, engaging. There's really no other word for it, in combat, risky  missions -- Carol.   
COSTELLO: Well, the president said earlier when he spoke in Paris that the problem was a lack of intelligence on the ground and that's why the United  States isn't conducting more airstrikes over Syria.   
STARR: Well, I think that's right. What they are looking for is that fine, granular intelligence, on a given day if you have aircraft flying over Raqqa,  Syria, where are the civilians? Where is the ISIS leadership? Where are the ISIS  weapons? If you're flying over Iraq and you see vehicles on the road, do you  know if those are ISIS fighters coming into Iraq from Syria? Do you know if  they're civilians on the run?    And the only way you can really know this is to have those eyes and ears on the  ground. It's been an inhibiting factor. Look, this is going to be a small number  of Special Operations Forces to start with. We're not talking about large combat  formations, but I don't think there's any way around it. This is an  acknowledgment, they need more eyes and ears on the ground. They need to find  out where ISIS really is. With all of the airstrikes that have been happening,  intelligence officials will tell you that ISIS is dispersing.    And as they disperse, as they move around, it can be very difficult to track  them and figure out who down on that road from 30,000 feet in your aircraft,  who's ISIS and who's a civilian. This will help, they hope. But still, quite a  long way to go. This is really just a beginning step. It will be, we're told, a  small number of U.S. troops, but they will be out there -- Carol.   
COSTELLO: All right. Barbara Starr reporting live from the Pentagon. Thank you.   And good morning. I'm Carol Costello. Thank you so much for joining me.    In the face of sharp criticism for his claims of seeing Muslims in the United  States celebrating after the September 11th attacks, Donald Trump is standing  firm. This morning Rudy Giuliani, who was the mayor of New York City on that  fateful day, weighted into the debate himself.       
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER NEW YORK CITY MAYOR: We have some attacks and we did have some celebrating, that is true. We had pockets of celebration. Some in Queens,  some in Brooklyn.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: How many people?  
GIULIANI: Ten, 12, 30, 40.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: And those --      
