    
HIGHLIGHT: There was a video released by ISIS with a statement from what ISIS calls a Russian spy and ISIS beheading him. And some perspective on what's going  on with ISIS from the former NATO supreme allied commander, retired General  Wesley Clark. ISIS claiming it has executed an alleged Russian spy and sending a  message to the Russian President Vladimir Putin vowing, quote, "you will not  find peace in your homes."     
ASHLEIGH BANFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: "THIS IS LIFE WITH LISA LING" tonight at 9:00 p.m. Eastern. And I'm done. Thanks for being with me but Wolf starts right now.   
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, I'm Wolf Blitzer. It's 1:00 p.m. here in Washington, 6:00 p.m. in London, 9:00 p.m. in Baghdad. Wherever you're watching  from around the world, thanks very much for joining us.    The breaking news coming into CNN just now, ISIS has released an eight-minute  video showing the execution of a man said to be what ISIS describes as a Russian  spy. The video shows a confession from the victim supposedly admitting he was  working for the Russian intelligence service. Before killing the man, the  executioner gives a message to the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, in  Russian.    CNN's Ian Lee is joining us from Istanbul in Turkey. Ian, so what's the message  to president Putin?   
IAN LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, after this roughly eight-minute video, we hear that confession from the man, talking detailing about how he was picked up by  Russian intelligence. How they blamed him, and accused him, of being a drug  smuggler. And how they, what the man said in the video, blackmailed him into  going into Syria, spying on ISIS. How he was going to look for men who were  planning on returning to Russia to carry out attacks, also people that would be  of interest to the Russian intelligence. And he said that he was then captured  by ISIS security, internal security.    But after, once he admits to all of this -- and this is a man who knows what is  coming. After this, you hear this jihadi behind him. And the one thing that is  very noticeable in this video, unlike past ones, unlike Jihadi John and others,  he is not wearing a mask. He is showing his face. He says that they were  looking, ISIS was looking, for ways to strike at Russia. That they said that  these recent airstrikes, Russia's involvement against ISIS and Iraq and Syria,  has opened up an opportunity for them to fight them. And they said -- and they  gave a very personal message here, Wolf. They said that they will not let the  Russian people be at peace. That they will destroy their homes and kill their  sons. A very firm and a very -- a very forceful and as well as scary message  there -- Wolf.   
BLITZER: And in a direct threat to the president, Vladimir Putin, in that message as well. Any reaction yet from Moscow, Ian?   
LEE: Oh, we haven't heard from Russia yet and it is unlikely to deter them. They are very much in this war in Syria defending their interests there. We are going  to hear what the Russians had to say. But this is another direct threat, another  direct action also against Russia. We had that downing of the Russian plane that  was carried out by ISIS in the Sinai Peninsula. Now, this execution of what ISIS  says is a Russian spy.   
BLITZER: Two hundred twenty-four people killed in that Russian airliner that -- just as it took off, 20 minutes or so, from Sharm El Sheikh, going back to  Russia, St. Petersburg. Now, another Russian is killed. Two Russians killed in  connection of the downing of that Russian plane near the border with Turkey as  well. We'll see what Putin does in response to all of this. Ian will have much  more on the breaking news coming up. Thanks very much.    Meanwhile, there's other important developments, France could soon learn if two  of its closest allies are willing to actually go all-in in this fight against  ISIS. In the U.K., lawmakers right now, they're in the middle of a marathon, 10  and a half-hour session on whether the British planes should be used to bomb  ISIS targets in Syria. The fiery debate revealing a divided parliament.       
DAVID CAMERON, PRIME MINISTER, BRITAIN: And they want to attack us again and again. And the question for us, do we answer the call of our allies, some of our  closest friends in the world, the French and the Americans who want us to join  with them and Arab partners in the work or do we ignore that call?   
JEREMY CORBYN, PARTY LEADER, BRITAIN: The public opinion is moving increasingly against what I believe to be an ill-thought out rush to war. And he wants to  hold this vote before the opinion grows even further against it.       
BLITZER: Germany also considering a plan that would activate 1,200 troops but in a support role not a direct combat role.    Meantime, here in the United States, a new and troubling study out of George  Washington University here in Washington, D.C. finds that support for ISIS in  the United States has reached an unprecedented level. At least 56 arrests for  ISIS-related activity so far this year alone. That's up from 15 arrests in 2014.     Let's bring in our Pentagon Correspondent Barbara Starr as well as  Max Foster who's outside Westminster. Max, two years ago, M.P.'s rejected  strikes, British strikes against Syrian government forces. So, what's the  difference this time 
? MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT: Well, Paris. TheParis attacks, that's what's changed. Since the Paris attacks, I think Brits have felt more vulnerable to attack themselves. And the poll have showing that  more than 50 percent of Brits are now in support of airstrikes against ISIS in  Syria. David Cameron has long wanted to take a vote to parliament. He now feels  the time is right. A 10 and a half hour debate has been set up for him to  convince parliament of that.    To be fair, he probably knows he's going to get this vote through otherwise he  wouldn't have taken it to parliament in the first place. His teams have been  working very hard behind the scenes. They've done the math. They think the vote  will go through. But he wants to take parliament with him and he doesn't want to  suffer from what Tony Blair suffered from with the Iraq invasion where he's been  vilified to making the wrong decision. He didn't go with parliament. David  Cameron wants the parliamentary support.    And you heard there from Jeremy Corbyn. He's the main voice against this,  although he's allowing his party to vote with their conscience. And many Labour  Party members will go with the government on this. And he's saying perhaps war  isn't the right solution. Perhaps politics and economic sanctions are a better  solution here. And are Brits making themselves vulnerable to more attacks if  they attack ISIS in Syria? And will young people be targets of radicalization?  So, there are the debates they are having there. It's probably going to go  through.   
BLITZER: All right, Max, we'll stand by for that.   Barbara over at the Pentagon, what's the latest on this decision by the  Pentagon? It announced yesterday to go ahead and send a few hundred so-called  expeditionary Special Operations' forces not only into Iraq but also into Syria  to hunt down and kill ISIS commanders there.   
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: You know, Wolf, what we're learning today is a lot of details not yet decided, not yet sorted out. Defense  secretary, Ash Carter, announced all of this yesterday, as you say, U.S. troops  going in to hunt down, capture, kill ISIS leaders to gain intelligence. But  there's almost no firm detail about how this will work.    What we do know is these will be members of the Joint Special Operations  Command, JSOC. That's the secretive unit that does this type of work. Army Delta  Force, Navy SEAL Team Six, they will be based out of northern Iraq. They will go  into Syria when needed. They will work with Iraqi forces.    But consider just this. One of the tasks they have is to capture top ISIS  leaders if they can. So, if they capture someone in Syria, even Abu Backer Al  Baghdadi, the leader of ISIS, what exactly are they going to do with him? Where  will they hold him? Where will they interrogate and question him? They have the  job but they don't yet have the decisions about the details on how to carry it  out. In fact, Pentagon officials are telling us, the day after the big  announcement from Carter, it could be weeks before these troops are actually on  the ground -- Wolf.   
BLITZER: All right, Barbara, thanks very much. Barbara Starr at the Pentagon.   Let's get some perspective on what's going on from the former NATO supreme  allied commander, retired General Wesley Clark who's joining us from New York  right now. First, give us your reaction to the breaking news, this latest  eight-minute ISIS video beheading someone they say is a Russian spy. How is  Putin likely to respond to this?   
GEN. WESLEY CLARK, FORMER SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER, NATO: Well, first of all, you know, I'm sure that Russia has spies in there and this confirms that  there is at least one. There's probably more because the Russians have worked  very hard to get on all sides of the conflict. How Putin will respond to this is  really unknown at this point. He has given a lot of rhetorical support to  saying, yes, he's going to go against all terrorists including ISIS. But,  actually, most of these strikes have been directed against the free Syrian army  and the other jihadis who were in there that have western support rather than  the -- than ISIS, itself.    And we think that this has been part of Putin's strategy as to eliminate the  non-ISIS resistance to Bashar Al Assad and pose the world with a choice, take As  Assad or take ISIS. And so, the whole thrust of western strategy is to try to  unify people against ISIS. So, we're at loggerheads with Putin. I don't think  the assassination or the beheading of this Russian spy is going to really change  that.   
BLITZER: What do you think about the decisions, apparently imminent decisions, of the U.K. and Germany to go ahead and bolster their involvement in this war  against ISIS in Syria? How much of a difference will that make?   
CLARK: I think it's useful to have more allies in this fight. I think it's useful to strike at ISIS when we can find the appropriate targets, and they make  a difference on the battlefield. So, I think that's good.     I don't think it's decisive. But the stronger the coalition, the more  people who pitch in and help, the greater the likelihood that these countries  will do the other things that they have to do, like cutting off reinforcement  supplies or travel by people affiliated or wanting to affiliate with ISIS.   
BLITZER: Listen to General Philip Breedlove. He's the NATO supreme allied commander, so the job you once -- you once held, speaking about what's going on  right now. Listen to this.       
GEN. PHILIP BREEDLOVE, SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER, NATO: As you know, the campaign is focused on a discrete set of targets. And the more that we can generate  targets -- and as you have heard, some of these aircraft that are -- that are  being provided or possibly provided, are reconnaissance aircraft. Those coupled  with what you've heard about some of the changes in our special operation forces  should be able to bring more good and discrete targets to the table for our  bombers to hit. And so, yes, we will need additional capacity.       
BLITZER: All right. So, he's talking about what the U.S. is doing. What's NATO doing to fight ISIS in Syria?   
CLARK: Well, you know, NATO is composed of its member countries, so NATO is relying on intelligence from the United States and other NATO members. And then,  it's, you know, standing behind the scenes. So, NATO is concerned about air  defense umbrella throughout NATO, including the air defense umbrella over  Turkey. But NATO doesn't have any independent forces, so Phil Breedlove is  actually expressing the frustration that of all of us have in air campaigns. You  run out of targets. It's very hard to get the targets. When we were striking  Kosovo and Serbia in 1999, the biggest problem was, actually, what are we go  going to strike? You can't just drop bombs on an empty forest or something. So,  you have to have intelligence on the ground. And that's one of the things that  this additional increment of forces from the Pentagon should be able to help  with.   
BLITZER: A NATO ally, France, was just attacked by ISIS, these terror attacks in Paris. Shouldn't NATO respond and go -- and as an organization as it did after  the U.S. was attacked on 911 and go -- and NATO went into Afghanistan, went  after the Taliban, went after Al Qaeda. Shouldn't NATO be doing the same thing  now as opposed to simply being MIA, missing in action?   
CLARK: Well, NATO might do that but this requires the United States as the major power in NATO to call on NATO. And right now, we haven't done that. You know,  after 911 attacks, Wolf, what happened is a NATO member nations came to the  United States and said, we'd like to declare Article Five so NATO can get  engaged. And the United States, under the Bush administration, said, no, we  don't need you to do that. So, individual allies pitched in in Afghanistan. It  wasn't until 2005 that the United States actually asked NATO to go into  Afghanistan. So, it was -- we had been in there for four years, by that point.    And so, in this case, I think the United States has to work this. But, Wolf, we  have to look at this through the correct end of the telescope. This is really  first and foremost about the future structure of the Middle East and especially  Syria. Will it be an Iranian state dominated by the Iranians, and therefore  providing a land bridge from let's say Teheran through Iraq and on into the  Mediterranean, surrounding Turkey and cutting off Saudi Arabia? Or will it be a  Sunni-dominated state in which the Alawites and Christians had no place and it  will be much more fundamentalist and it will then be an opponent to an  Iranian-dominated Iraq? So, what's the middle ground in this? And that's really  the role of the diplomats, hopefully they're doing that in Vienna. And if we  could do that and bring these contending powers together, then we could get the  Turks, the Saudis, the Iranians, the Iraqis and the Syrian army all focused on  the real enemy that we see which is ISIS.    But until we can resolve the structure of the future of this area, everybody has  conflicting objectives. And so, they mouth the words. They do a little bit. But  underneath, they're hoping they don't do too much and upset the apple cart.   
BLITZER: Yes.  
CLARK: And that's been our problem. This is a geostrategic problem not a terrorist problem.   
BLITZER: All right, General Clark, thanks, as usual, for joining us.  
CLARK: Thank you, Wolf.  
BLITZER: Coming up, we'll have more on the breaking news, the video just released, eight-minute video, by ISIS, another beheading. This time, a so-called  Russian spy.    Also coming up, we'll speak live with the chairman of the House Foreign  Intelligence Committee, Ed Royce. There you see him. He's up on Capitol Hill.  We'll get his reaction to the breaking news as well.       
 BLITZER: Returning now to the breaking news. ISIS claiming it has executed an alleged Russian spy and sending a message to the Russian President  Vladimir Putin vowing, quote, "you will not find peace in your homes."    Take a look at the tighter shot of the picture for the first time. We are seeing  the uncovered face of an ISIS executioner just before he beheads this alleged  Russian spy.    Let's talk about what's going on with Congressman Ed Royce of California. He's  the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Mr. Chairman, thanks for  joining us.    What is your reaction to this latest eight-minute ISIS video showing the  beheading of someone they say is a Russian spy with a strong warning to Putin,  among other things, they say, "Putin the dog."   
REP. ED ROYCE, CALIFORNIA: Well clearly, you know, one more example of the brutality of ISIS taken in conjunction with the attack in Paris against civilian  populations. It's a reminder of their war against apostates.     And I think what Vladimir Putin should think on for a minute is the  fact that Moscow itself is a target, the attack on the metro liner from Russia  over Egypt clearly is another message from ISIS. And so, at this point, what we  would like to see is a recalibration on the part of the Russian military so that  instead of attacking the free Syrian army and the most -- more secular Syrian  forces, they begin to attack ISIS. So far, we have not seen that. As a matter of  fact, in theater, their operations now have been against the Syrian  middle-class, basically, that are carrying on a separate struggle against  Assad's regime.   
BLITZER: Yes, the Russians -- Putin support Bashar al-Assad's regime and they've been going after rebels who are trying to fight him. They have had some attacks  against ISIS targets around Raqqa, their so- called caliphate, but the U.S.  obviously would like to see the Russians devote all of their energies to going  after ISIS in Syria.    We did hear today for the first time in a long time from the Syrian president,  Bashar al-Assad, in a rare interview basically blaming Turkey, the Saudis, the  Qataris, for the ISIS strength. Listen to this.       
PRES. BASHAR AL-ASSAD, SYRIA: You need first -- fortify them and defeat them, you have to cut and suffocate their supplies, armaments, money, and recruits  that are coming mainly through Turkey, and with the support of the Saudi and  Qatari.    This is the first step you take while you are attacking them on the ground. The  problem now that we are fighting the terrorists, but they have unlimited supply,  unwarranted supply from many different countries, mainly regional, with the  support or overlooking of the west of some of those same countries, to be  precise.       
BLITZER: Does he have a point that Turkey is not doing enough to stop ISIS, especially the flow of terrorists across the Turkish/Syrian border and the sale  of the black market sale of oil coming in from Syria into Turkey?   
ROYCE: What we have discovered, and we had the Turkish ambassador in yesterday to talk to members of my committee, along with the ambassador from Jordan and  Iraq and Saudi Arabia on specifically the issue of closing down the border. But  it is not just oil sales that are ending up going to Turkey. It is also that  ISIS is selling this to Assad's regime as well. And as you know, there is hard  evidence on this now, Wolf.    So in fact, there is a little bit of the projection here. This has been, for a  long time, one of the examples of the way in which Assad's regime, even while  they use ISIS as a foil, still does business with ISIS, because what they are  really worried about is the free Syrian army and the rebels who are trying to  overthrow the regime in Damascus. Secondarily I would just say, we are  re-doubling our efforts to try to get Turkey to just close that entire border,  which will also be helpful.   
BLITZER: Yeah. Turkey has a huge military, 400,000 active troops, 200,000 reservists. Yesterday President Obama said in particular he is concerned, in his  words, about 98 kilometers, about 60 miles or so, that are still used, in his  words, as a transit point for foreign fighters and he said ISIS is shipping out  fuel for sale across that border that helps finance their terrorist activities.    So even the president really showing his frustration with this NATO ally,  Turkey. I assume that you are frustrated as well. Did you express that  frustration to the Turkish ambassador 
? ROYCE: We had a long discussion with thefull members of the committee with the Turkish ambassador and the other ambassadors in the region on the necessity of closing down that border and  especially that particular open point on the border that you have just  delineated.    At the same time, it's also incumbent upon the Assad regime to quit its trading  in oil with ISIS, which is also fueling the conflict, because ISIS needs that  hard currency to continue to recruit to pay its fighters. Remember, ISIS pays  these new recruits that they recruit from all over the world, and that is one of  their sources for money to do it.   
BLITZER: I know the U.S. is also frustrated and many of these moderate Arab-Sunni states are friends of the United States like Jordan, Saudi Arabia,  the UAE, Qatar, Kuwait. They basically stopped their personal, their direct  involvement in going after ISIS in Syria. I don't think there have been any  airstrikes from these countries since August, if you will. What is happening on  this front?   
 ROYCE: Well, this was another topic of our conversation was the necessity for those in the region to step up their involvement, not just with  airstrikes, but there are also steps that they can take with ground forces as  well. And of course, they are all frightened of ISIS, but they all want somebody  else to do the fighting. The reality is that there are forces in the region  that, as we have discussed before, are doing the fighting. There are Yazidis and  Kurds and Sunni tribes. But they lack the weapons. They are the ones engaged  right now on the ground. We have some trainers, U.S. trainers that have helped  them. But again, they report that these forces lack the weapons on the ground  and lack the type of air support they really need from not just the U.S. forces,  but other air forces. Now that Britain is discussing joining the attacks in  Syria, this will help as well. So I think we have to do all of the above here.   
BLITZER: Are you supporting the president's decision, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, the Defense Secretary to add more U.S. troops in this fight against ISIS  inside Syria directly originally 50 special operations forces, now another 200  or another 250 based in Iraq, they are going to go into Syria and try to hunt  down ISIS commanders, is that okay with you?   
ROYCE: Yes. I think what we have today is 3500 U.S. trainers and other military in the region that are assisting the Kurds and others who are resisting, along  with the free Syria army, resisting ISIS and carrying out these types of  activities, and it certainly makes sense to me for our - forwarddeployed  special ops personnel to be able to do things like call in airstrikes when they  see an ISIS target or do things like help stand up these brigades. After all,  they are working with female battalions of Kurdish soldiers to make sure that  they can withstand the attacks from ISIS, they're working with the Yazidis and  the Christians and other local forces.    So this is a continuation of the policy, but what we need to do is step it up in  the sense that we need to be targeting these ISIS forces on the ground, and as  you know, you just saw the French pull in their Air Force and hit four ISIS  training bases that we had yet to strike because our rules of engagement are  such that the decisions can't be made by our local commanders. They are made all  the way in Washington, D.C., and three times out of four, they can't get the  approval to hit those targets. We need to change those rules of engagement and  step that up. And that is where the president needs to lead and so far we have  not seen a strategy out of the White House to do that. That needs to change  right now and with Britain stepping up, that might help.   
BLITZER: Because the rules of engagement try to prevent what is called collateral damage, innocent civilians who might be killed in those U.S.  airstrikes. Donald Trump earlier today, the Republican presidential frontrunner,  he was on TV, he was on Fox, and he suggested go ahead, kill the ISIS terrorists  and if you have to kill their families, kill their families as well. Some are  already saying that would be a violation of - that would be a war crime, if you  will. What is your reaction when you hear that?   
ROYCE: You know, for those of us that are involved in foreign policy and have been to the region and met with our military commanders, I think that is totally  off topic. The question here is if you have a convoy of ISIS fighters or a  convoy of trucks with artillery attached, ISIS artillery attached, we know of  cases where our -- where our aircraft can't get the support from the  administration to -- to take out those targets. That is what we are talking  about. I think he is off subject in terms of what we are trying to do here.   
BLITZER: Ed Royce is the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Mr. Chairman, thanks very much for joining us.   
ROYCE: Thank you very much. I appreciate it.  
BLITZER: After the break, we will have more on the breaking news that's coming in. Standby. Much more right after this.   
