    
HIGHLIGHT: Opening statements could begin as early today in trial of Baltimore officer William Porter in the death of Freddie Gray. A new George Washington  University study finds unprecedented support for ISIS in the United States.  Interview with Rep. Mike Turner on homeland security. In Chicago, calls growing  for mayor Rahm Emanuel's resignation over police cover-up in death of Laquan  McDonald. Interview with Chicago alderman John Arena. Russian president Vladimir  Putin has accused Turkey of downing the plane to protect its secret oil deal  with ISIS. And today Russia is claiming that the Turkish president himself and  his family directly benefit from that oil deal with ISIS.     
 JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: They both are ten years maximum in prison and so he could serve at least 20 years if convicted of those two alone.    Now, William Porter was not there at the beginning of that van ride when Freddie  Gray was arrested and put into the van and began to be transported. He came  halfway through when the driver, Officer Goodson, had radioed in that he needed  another officer to check on a person they were transporting. That was William  Porter right there. That's when he came on.    But here's what prosecutors believe is so important. He said to Freddie Gray in  that van, "Do you need medical attention?" So he was aware. He saw something.  Freddie Gray responded yes. William Porter communicated that allegedly to the  driver of the van, and they did not go to the hospital at that point.    Secondly, according to the probable cause statement, Freddie Gray is on the  floor of the police van. William Porter has him sit on the bench, but doesn't  seat belt him in. And so prosecutors are saying it's that omission right there,  not putting that seat belt on him, when it was an order to do so in the  Baltimore Police Department, that that, in essence, among other things, caused  the death of Freddie Gray.    The defense says not so fast. We don't know what happened in that van. We don't  know what caused those injuries. And nobody was seat belting anybody in, and the  order had just come down two weeks before. And we don't even know if the  defendant knew about that order. Carol?   
CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: All right, and you say opening statements could begin later today. It's moving along at a faster clip than anyone expected. Jean  Casarez reporting live in Baltimore. Thank you.       
COSTELLO: And good morning, I'm Carol Costello. Thank you so much for joining me. Unprecedented support for ISIS in the United States. Those are the chilling  findings of a new study by George Washington University, which says some 71  people have been charged with ISIS- related activities since March of 2014,  including 56 arrests this year alone. Of those, the average age is 26; 86  percent are male; 40 percent converted to Islam; 51 percent traveled or  attempted to travel abroad; while 27 percent were involved in plots to carry out  attacks on American soil.    Now this report also shows that there isn't just one face of ISIS support in the  United States. Among those who have been arrested, killed, or suspected of  aiding ISIS are people from a variety of ethnic and economic backgrounds. You  can see their pictures there. The report notes that many are American born,  under the age of 30, and had no previous history of radical views or activities.    And now the man who was once the top military intelligence official for  President Obama is offering a warning.       
LT. GEN. MICHAEL FLYNN, FMR. DIRECOTR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY: The FBI I know is working overtime today to prevent this kind of an attack. Paris  was eight guys. The attack in Mali at the hotel was ten guys. So two guys, three  guys, four guys could have -- could raise absolute havoc in a mall or somewhere  else ---   
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: You think it's just a matter of time?  
FLYNN: I do, I really do believe it's a matter of time. I believe that there's going to be -- where our luck is going to run out and they're going to be able  to achieve something along the lines of what we saw in Paris.       
COSTELLO: Well, let's talk about this with Republican Congressman Mike Turner of Ohio, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. Welcome, sir.   
REP. MIKE TURNER, OHIO: Carol, thanks for having me.  
COSTELLO: Thanks for being here. Do you agree with Lieutenant General Flynn? Do you think a Paris-style attack is imminent here?   
TURNER: You know, there continue to be calls from Capitol Hill for the president to take this threat seriously. As you said, the report from George Washington  University shows unprecedented risk. It's not just support for ISIS; it's risk  to the United States and to the American people. This is a national security  issue. We had General Dunford testifying before the House Armed Services  Committee yesterday, contradicting the president's assessment that ISIS is  contained.    I sent a letter to the president last month saying the president's statements  don't match with the intelligence that we're receiving here on Capitol Hill. I  serve on the Armed Services Committee and the Intelligence Committee. If the  president has a rosier picture of what's happening, he should share it, because  everything we're seeing is warning signs and risks and threats to the United  States.   
COSTELLO: As far as threats here at home, though, how concerned are you that authorities have that covered?   
TURNER: Well, you know, as was in the previous interview that they just noted, we only have to be wrong once. I think we're doing an excellent job in tracking  people down, and Homeland Security and the FBI trying to find them and bring  them to justice, who want to do harm to Americans. But they only have to be  right once. The real threat here is ISIS is working in the United States, trying  to organize threats to the American people. And it's ISIS that is the challenge  and it's ISIS that this conflict needs to be taken to.   
COSTELLO: So the president is sending more special ops troops into Syria to get better intelligence on the ground so that air strikes will be more effective.     Is that the right move? And if it is the right move, does more need  to be done?   
TURNER: Well, you know, the president has no real strategy. I mean, what he just -- what you just described was "I'm going to send people in so my air strikes  will be more effective", limits the actions to air strikes. The president hasn't  said what strategy do I need? How do I defeat them? And how do we get fully  behind this? I mean, we've had years of this where we've seen Iraq and the  territory in Syria fall. and ISIS become a stronghold and then threaten the west  with the president really turning his back to it.   
COSTELLO: So what strategy should he be taking, Congressman?  
TURNER: If the President of the United States really wants to defeat ISIS, he needs to turn to the military and say do it. He doesn't really recognize that  this is a threat to the United States. Having just said that they're contained,  he clearly doesn't see the threat is imminent to the United States. In your  interview --   
COSTELLO: When you say -- I'm sorry, Congressman. You say turn to his military and just say do it. What do you mean by that?   
TURNER: Put together a strategy. He is limiting overall what the outcomes are based upon his rosy picture that we do not have a threat from ISIS, that ISIS is  contained, and there is no threat to the United States. That's why I sent him a  letter just last month saying, you know, Mr. President, the information, the  intelligence that we're receiving on the Armed Services Committee and the  Intelligence Committee show an imminent threat to the United States and  certainly show that ISIS is growing and gaining territory and in strength. That  -- those are not the indicators that the president's plans are working.   
COSTELLO: Well, Congressman, when you say imminent -- imminent threat to the United States, that sounds pretty scary. What imminent threat to the United  States are you talking about?   
TURNER: As you know and as you just reported, there are people throughout the United States who are sympathizers with ISIS, who have been working to  coordinate attacks and threats upon the United States. That's why arrests are  occurring. And as your previous interviewersaid, you're only having a  matter of time --   
COSTELLO: Well, I think that as far as we know, the FBI --  
TURNER: -- before there's someone who's going to get through that we're not going to be able to stop.   
COSTELLO: -- and the CIA says there's not a credible threat within the United States. I'm just wondering if you know more and can share?   
TURNER: That is not the case, Carol. No one says there's not a credible threat. They say in fact the risk is great. They're continuing to pursue leads. They're  continuing to arrest people. There is absolutely a threat to the United States.  And it is one that the President of the United States needs to recognize.    Paris just happened. It was not a figment of anyone's imagination. That was an  unbelievable, horrific tragedy. The president needs to realize that we have a  real threat here.   
COSTELLO: All right, Congressman Mike Turner of Ohio, thanks for joining me this morning.   
TURNER: Thank you.  
COSTELLO: Still to come in the NEWSROOM, protesters calling for Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel's resignation. Will he address the outrage again today?   
 COSTELLO: Calls for Chicago's mayor to resign less than 24 hours after he asked the city's top police leader to step down. Rahm Emanuel now  bombarded by cover-up claims, accused of hiding police wrongdoing in the  shooting death of Laquan McDonald. Some say it was all to win this re-election  back in April. A $5 million settlement with the victim's family finalized just  one week after winning that race.    Chuy Garcia ran against Emanuel.       
JESUS "CHUY" GARCIA, FORMER CHICAGO MAYORAL CANDIDATE: The mayor has been involved in an effort to conceal information regarding this incident, this  tragedy, this miscarriage of justice. It was obvious that the video would have  had profound impact had it been released when it occurred. And the mayor has  taken great steps to ensure that it's concealed.       
COSTELLO: Adding more fuel to cover-up claims, if you watch the dashcam video ,there's no audio. Then there's that missing Burger King surveillance footage.  An employee says the police deleted it the night of McDonald's death. Also keep  in mind the timing of the charges against Officer Van Dyke, filed 14 months  after the killing and announced just one day before the dashcam video was set to  be released.    With me now, Alderman John Arena; he's with Chicago's 45th Ward. Welcome, sir.   
JOHN ARENA, ALDERMAN, CHICAGO'S 45TH WARD: Good morning, Carol.  
COSTELLO: Is there a cover-up in Chicago?  
ARENA: Well, I think we have an awful lot of questions that need to be answered, as you laid out in the beginning of this segment. I think Lisa Madigan calling  for the Justice Department to do an investigation is an important step. We  cannot self-investigate something this complex and this long running for 400  days to, you know, transpire. We need a special prosecutor. I think Anita  Alvarez has culpability here that has to be cleared up.    So there are a lot of questions that have to be answered and it can't be done  from within the same circles that allowed this to go forward this long.   
COSTELLO: Are there questions in your mind though about the mayor?  
ARENA: I've worked with this mayor for over five years now. I'm not one of his biggest proponents at all. I have a lot of questions about the way he does some  of his policies.    In the case of the police department, Chicago has the opportunity to do this  right. This is national issue in terms of overreaction by officers. We see these  cases popping up in cities all across the country. Chicago needs to lead. It  needs to get back to how can we create a connection between our police  department and our communities that are in trouble? And what McCarthy failed to  do was create a real community policing engagement policy that was at all  effective.     And I'm very happy to see him gone in light of this. I would have  liked to see him leave sooner, because I didn't see him really honoring what he  said he was going to do when he came in, which was create trust in our  communities. And these types of issues really breach that trust. We're seeing it  over and over again. So until we answer the questions independently, we won't  have those answers.   
COSTELLO: Some say it is a wonder that this Police Commissioner McCarthy wasn't let go before. Do you know what the murder solve rate is in Chicago? I have the  number for you if you don't.   
ARENA: Can you repeat this.  
COSTELLO: The murder solve rate in Chicago. In 2014, it was 28.7 percent. Nationally, the murder solve rate is 64 percent. So if you're a criminal, why  not go ahead and commit a murder in Chicago because you're not likely to get  caught?   
ARENA: Those kind of statistics are troubling. And I think that's why we -- there had been calls previous to this exposure of this video and this incident  for McCarthy to leave. Because there was not the effective use of the police  force or the effective management of the police force.    And, again, those communities, what we heard over and over again is the police  force just comes in as an occupying force. It is not creating, finding ways to  solve the underlying gang problems, gun trafficking problems, the access to  weapons and the violence in our communities.   
COSTELLO: So how long do you think it might take for, you know, something positive to happen as far as a relationship between the mayor's office in the  community? The police and the community?   
ARENA: Well, I think it would be impossible to give you a timeline now. I think this is just starting. And we need to, like I said, show the country that large  cities can establish police forces that are part of our communities and not  occupying forces in troubled communities. That they can engage in the solution  to the problems of violence by going to the many members of these communities  that are willing to work hard, that are willing to step up. The army of moms  that is taking over blocks from gangs. Those are the kind of groups we need to  support. And the police need to be a part of that solution.    But before we can rebuild that, we need to find a new leader, a new  superintendent for the Chicago Police Department. The mayor has to answer these  questions about what led to this, why did we wait so long? Anita Alvarez, the  state's attorney, needs to answer these questions. And I think it has to come  from this oversight from a Justice Department investigation, like the state's  attorney, Lisa Madigan, has called for. Outside audits, establishing IG  oversight over the police review process. We do have the police review board and  the independent police review board as well, where civic engagement and civic  oversight is part of the solution.    But there has to be trust -- trust has to be regained here. And this is a  massive breach of trust that has to be resolved here.   
COSTELLO: All right, Alderman John Arena, thank you so much for being with me this morning.   
ARENA: You're welcome.  
COSTELLO: Now a stand from an unlikely and fictional hero, Batman is taking on police brutality. DC Comics revealed its latest installment last Wednesday, just  one day after Chicago Police Officer Van Dyke was charged with murder. The comic  depicts a young African-American man with his hands up and police guns pointed  at him. That's when Batman swoops in and beats up the cops. As a result, the  entire Gotham Police Department turns on the superhero and leaves him in a  bloody slump, one of the officers asking had enough? The artist and writer  behind the comic says the story is intended to explore what's happening around  the country today.    Still to come in the NEWSROOM, it's getting personal between Russia and Turkey.  Scathing accusations from Moscow about the Turkish president, next.       
COSTELLO: A presidential war of words, tensions growing after Turkey shot down a Russian fighter jet last month. Russian president Vladimir Putin accusing Turkey  of downing the plane to protect its secret oil deal with ISIS. Just today,  Russia claiming that the Turkish president himself and his family directly  benefit from that trade, that deal, that oil deal with ISIS. Turkey's president  says prove that and I'll resign. He insists the Russian plane was violating  Turkish airspace and that's why it was shot down. In the meantime, the Syrian  president Bashar al Assad is once again coming to Russia's defense.    Ian Lee is following all of this for us from Istanbul. Hi, Ian.   
IAN LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Carol. Yes, we are seeing this row deepen even further between Russia, Turkey, now you have the Syrian president coming in,  ganging up against the Turkish President Erdogan. They're now saying that this  downing of the plane is revealing something else about the Turkish president.  Take a listen.       
BASHAR AL-ASSAD, SYRIAN PRESIDENT: It has shown the recent tension of Erdogan who, let's say, lost his nerves just because the Russian intervention has  changed the balance on the ground.     So the failure of Erdogan in Syria, the failure of his terrorist  groups, means his political demands. So he wants to do anything in order to put  obstacles in front of any success.       
LEE: Carol, Russia came out with those accusations, allegations that Turkey is buying oil from ISIS yesterday. We saw Erdogan say show me the proof. Well,  Russia today coming out saying they have specific evidence. And as you said,  Erdogan said he would resign if they could prove it.    But Turkey has hit back, saying that, in fact, it's Russia's ally, the Syrian  regime, that is buying this oil from ISIS. They say they have evidence from the  U.S. Treasury Department that shows, as they say, they're the ones that are  funding this terrorist organization. But this just shows you how deep it is  going between really Russia and Turkey, and now you have Syria joining this  conflict.   
COSTELLO: All right, Ian Lee reporting live from Istanbul, Turkey, this morning.   The next hour of CNN NEWSROOM after a break.   
