    
HIGHLIGHT: The U.N. has organized here in Paris, some 150 heads of state. These leaders are in pursuit of a climate agreement. Donald Trump remains defiant  despite widespread criticism of his claim that most say is erroneous that he saw  Muslims in the U.S. celebrating on September 11th. Despite the lack of evidence,  how will this play out as the Iowa caucuses draw closer? The holiday weekend  marred by a deadly shooting at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado. Did the  heated political rhetoric in the last few months, could it have contributed to  the gunman's rampage?     
 CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to Paris. We are here for the COP21. You are now watching the Christiane and Chris show here. Christiane  Amanpour, it is great to have you here to understand these issues, but also if  it's not going to be just government, it's going to be public and private.  There's one man that we need to step up and we have him here this morning.   
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right. One man whose really been in the forefront of this, and that is Bill Gates, the  founder of Microsoft and the co-chairman of the Bill and Melinda Gates  Foundation.    Mr. Gates, you are over there at the summit headquarters in Le Bourget. Thank  you for joining Chris and I.    Give us a sense of what you will do in terms of public-private partnership to  make a dent in this situation with carbon emissions.   
BILL GATES, FOUNDER, MICROSOFT: Well, the key to getting increased commitments to avoid the temperature rise that we want to avoid is going to be innovation.  We need to bring the cost premium for being clean down. And the partnership  that's key to that is government's funding basic research and private investors,  like the group of 28 people I brought together, to take the high-risk venture  investments and turn those into products so we can have clean energy that's not  more expensive than today's hydrocarbon energy.   
CUOMO: How difficult was it to get the 28 together? Did you have to make any personal guarantees to some of these guys? Some of them are your friends. How  hard was it?   
GATES: When I called up the 28 different people, I was amazed at their enthusiasm for the idea. Some of them will do the investment directly; some will  work through a fund that will create that will help vet the breakthrough  technologies. But I'm sure we're going to get more signing up. We didn't have  the fund structured so we didn't go after institutions, but we'll be approaching  those in the months ahead 
. AMANPOUR: Mr. Gates, your fellow philanthropist,entrepreneur, Ted Turner, the founder of CNN, said that if he had one word of advice to young entrepreneurs today, it would be go out and make your money in  renewable energy.    You are now putting another billions dollars of your own money into green  innovation. What does it take, though, to convince more than your 28 that  actually spending on R&D, doing the kinds of things that you're doing is really  a great investment for their own pockets as well as for humanity?   
GATES: Well, the returns will come partly through the benefits to society. Energy investing is risky enough. It takes long enough that it helps to have  people who believe in the cause. And so they're really getting two benefits out  of this.    I'm very optimistic that because of the gigantic commitment we're getting from  governments here today and these partners that we will solve the problem. That  we can get that premium down so the idea of a clean energy generation doesn't  require the poorer countries to slow down their development. They can go full  speed ahead.   
CUOMO: You're making a good point. I remember in the movie "The Graduate," where this older man looks at, you know, the main character and says one word for you,  plastics.    Now the new word is going green. And yet for someone like you, Mr. Gates and  other entrepreneurs, you know, you say the gigantic commitment of governments.  But a lot of them are still pumping out fossil fuel emissions. A lot of them  aren't doing what they need to do because there is really no enforcement  mechanism.    So how do we get that part straight so that there can be an even playing field  on people moving forward with innovation?   
 GATES: Well, the best thing of all would be to get competitive with the price of hydrocarbon. Some countries will use tax approach to help boot  strap that which is good. There's been a lot of tax credits involved. There's  been a lot of what we call renewable furlough standards.    But in the long run, you need the innovation so that the cost of clean is as low  or ideally lower than the coal-based energy generation. And that's why the  science is so exciting now. It is risky, but basic research from governments  plus entrepreneurs like this group of 28 that includes the University of  California, I think that lays the foundation over the next decade. We'll fund  over 100 companies and enough of those will be successful to make this  challenge.   
AMANPOUR: And Mr. Gates, what do you hope beyond what you're about to launch, along with President Obama and President Hollande. What we've been talking about  that the governments can do? Because many people say, oh, you know, unless all  the governments actually get together, sign on to something that's legally  binding which this will not be, because of the problems with the U.S. Congress,  that it just won't work. For instance, China, which has made all sorts of  promises about capping its emissions, turns out it's been emitting 17 percent  more of coal and those kinds of emissions than they either knew of or made  public.    What is your hope therefore for where governments can lead?   
GATES: Well, it's very helpful to have a framework for commitments, but five years from now, why will people increase those commitments? And how can we make  it more feasible so that we can get almost all those countries meeting their  commitments as well as improving them and the answer is innovation.    I've seen innovation in the digital space. In the interspace it doesn't happen  as fast. It's harder. But now we're bringing together literally on the  government side and billions on the private side. And that's going to get a lot  of new start-ups going. And so the -- it won't be as hard to make commitments. I  think that's key. If we didn't have innovation, I don't think we'd ever get to  where we need to be.   
CUOMO: Help us dream a little bit here. You've used five years as a horizon, ten years as a horizon. When you look into the future, what do you see happening  that we couldn't imagine today?   
GATES: Well, I see the price of energy actually being lower than today. And that's for clean, reliable energy. And I see huge benefits to everyone,  particularly the poor, who don't have air conditioning. They don't have a stove.  They don't have refrigeration. They don't have lights at night. The cost of  fertilizer is based on the price of energy. So all these things that enable the  modern lifestyle are very energy intensive.    And so only by making those things clean and low cost can we really solve the  problems of poverty. So energy is quite central. Avoiding climate change where  the poor would suffer the most and getting them highly reliable energy. And  that's why when I meet with these scientists that have all sorts of wild ideas,  each of which is risky in and of itself, I see a portfolio that virtually  guarantees will have the breakthroughs.   
AMANPOUR: Bill Gates, thank you so much for joining us this morning, from Le Bourget right there at the summit headquarters. Thanks from me and Chris.   
CUOMO: Thank you for bringing us the Bill Gates interview. He's such a critical player in this. And it's so important to hear how he dreams this going forward.   
AMANPOUR: I think it's vital, because he has put his money and his intellect and his brains where his mouth is. He was the new start-up back then. And there are  people like David Attenborough, who thinks that if America could put an  astronaut, a man on the moon, 10 years after saying so, we can definitely do the  kind of innovation with the kind of money and commitment that people like Bill  Gates are suggesting 
. CUOMO: And, Alisyn, it's great to get the businessman'smind on this. Politicians talk about enforcement and how you punish if they don't do it and what's the sanction mechanism. He says make it cost equivalent.  Then there's a profit incentive. And that will take care of compliance with any  of the standards. A very different take and probably the one that gets you where  you want to be.   
ALISYN CAMEROTA, CNN ANCHOR: Absolutely. And it was also fascinating to hear how he cajoled his 28 friends into it which didn't sound like they actually needed  much convincing. So that was a great question, too.    Thanks so much, guys. We'll be back with you shortly.     Back here at home, Donald Trump remains defiant despite widespread  criticism of his claim that most say is erroneous that he saw Muslims in the  U.S. celebrating on September 11th. Despite the lack of evidence, how will this  play out as the Iowa caucuses draw closer? We have analysis -- next.   
CAMEROTA: Donald Trump continues to say that he saw American Muslims celebrating the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center. In fact, over the weekend he says,  quote, "I was 100 percent right."    Joining us to discuss this and so much more that happened over the weekend, CNN  political commentator and Democratic strategic Paul Begala. He's senior adviser  for a pro-Hillary Clinton Super PAC. And CNN political commentator and  Republican strategist, Kevin Madden.    Guys, great to see you. Hope you had a great holiday.   
PAUL BEGALA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Good morning. You, too.  
KEVIN MADDEN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Good morning.  
CAMEROTA: Donald Trump was on "Meet the Press" over the weekend. And he insists that he saw thousands of extremists celebrating as the twin towers fell. Let me  play for you what he said this weekend.       
 DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I've had hundreds of people call in and tweet in on Twitter saying that they saw it and I  was 100 percent right.    Now, "The Washington Post" also wrote about tailgate parties. We're looking for  other articles and we're looking for other clips. And I wouldn't be surprised if  we found them, Chuck. But for some reason, they're not that easy to come by. I  saw it. So many people saw it, Chuck. And so why would I take it back? I'm not  going to take it back.   
CAMEROTA: Kevin, let's be crystal clear. People have been looking for any shred of evidence that this happened, that thousands of people  were celebrating.    "The Washington Post" that he mentions there reported that the FBI got calls  that people thought other people were celebrating or tailgating, but they were  never able to substantiate them when they investigated.   
MADDEN: Yes.  
CAMEROTA: Where does that leave us, Kevin?  
MADDEN: Well, look, this is one of the big challenges that we have with Donald Trump. How do you fact check a serial prevaricator? I mean, this is like the  George Costanza from "Seinfeld" rule of politics that Donald Trump seems to be  applying, which is that it's not a lie if you believe it. And he keeps repeating  it.    That's the other amazing thing here is the sheer volume of outrageous claims or  offensive statements that Donald Trump has made, it seems to inoculate him.  We've lost the sort of shock value. Every week, time and time again, Donald  Trump makes an outrageous claim and stands by it even when it's disproving.    You have to assume -- I think his opponents have to assume or expect that at a  certain point, the electorate becomes wise to this and it becomes such a  character issue that voters become less and less inclined to associate it  themselves with somebody who has this character flaw.   
CAMEROTA: Yes. Even though, Paul, we've seen not a shred of evidence of that happening either. Donald Trump's poll numbers have not gone down when he's said  things like this.   
BEGALA: Right. I agree with the beginning of Kevin's analysis and I love the George Costanza reference. I mean, he answered actually with -- actually Brit  Hume over at Fox reminded us of this the other day. That Abraham Lincoln, who  was even predate George Costanza have said, you can fool some of the people all  of the time and Mr. Trump is proof of that.    The question is how many. You know, 25 percent of Republicans are for Mr. Trump  despite all of these things he says, provable falsehoods and other outrageous  things attacking John McCain saying he wasn't a war hero. That's 25 percent. The  truth is I think he could go higher. 44 percent of all Republicans in America  believe this falsehood. Barack Obama was not born in America.    In part because Mr. Trump advanced that before he was a presidential candidate.  He's claimed he was sending -- remember investigators -- now they're looking for  the videotape of protests that didn't happen. Back then they were looking for  proof that the president was born in Kenya. He was sending investigators to  Hawaii, which by the way, that's where he was born. There is proof he was born  in Hawaii. But you can't argue with these folks. And it's really now becoming a  bit of a character test and intelligence test of Republican voters and 25  percent are failing it.   
CAMEROTA: Gentleman, quickly let's talk about Ben Carson. He was in Jordan over the weekend. He went to a refugee camp.    Kevin, Ben Carson's numbers have softened a bit.   
MADDEN: Yes.  
CAMEROTA: Lately. Is that because of a perceived lack of foreign policy expertise or what?   
MADDEN: I do think the Paris attacks have reframed the race in many voters' minds. And the national security foreign policy issue is one where Ben Carson  did not have as defined a profile.    I think this was really smart, though, by Ben Carson. Because what he's done by  going over to Jordan and visiting these refugee camps, he's taken the political  rhetoric out of it and he's actually gone and seen with his own eyes some of the  impact that American policy making has on this region of the world.    And so I think as a result, he's more informed. And I think as a result, many  voters will look at him as having a better platform to now offer a better policy  making going forward for the country.   
CAMEROTA: Paul Begala, I know you one. I'm sorry, we've had so much news out of Paris that I'm going to owe you one for next time.    Kevin, Paul, great to see you, guys.   
BEGALA: Thanks, Alisyn.  
MADDEN: Great to be with you.  
CAMEROTA: The last G.O.P. debate of the year is just two weeks away. It's happening right here on CNN. It's moderated by Wolf Blitzer. That is December  15th, 9:00 p.m.    Set your clocks now, Michaela.   
MICHAELA PEREIRA, CNN ANCHOR: All right. Well, and you know, he is keeping a running tally. We'll keep you honest on that.    More news ahead here. The holiday weekend marred by a deadly shooting at a  Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado. Did the heated political rhetoric in the  last few months, could it have contributed to the gunman's rampage? The  executive vice president of Planned Parenthood joins us next with reaction.   
 PEREIRA: Colorado authorities have not disclosed exactly what motivated the suspect in the shootings at a Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood,  but a source tells CNN that he muttered about baby parts after he was taken into  custody. There is a growing chorus of abortion rights groups who are pointing to  political rhetoric about Planned Parenthood as a contributing factor.    Joining us now on NEW DAY is Dawn Laguens. She is the executive vice president  of Planned Parenthood. She's joined us before.    I'm sorry that we have to talk about this. I know it's a tough time for your  organization and particularly in Colorado. I'm curious where you're at on this,  Don.    We've had a chance to talk to you before. We know there is an awful lot of  rhetoric and a climate in the country right now about what you do at Planned  Parenthood. And there are people that disagree with what you do and are looking  to defund your organization.    Do you see this as a troubled individual, an isolationist, the ramblings of a  madman, or do you think that Planned Parenthood was specifically targeted?   
DAWN LAGUENS, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF PLANNED PARENTHOOD: Thanks, Michaela.   What I would say, first of all, is that before any political conversation, the  conversation in our hearts are with these families who have lost their loved  ones, with the injured who are recovering in the hospital. And, of course, we  just continue to be so thankful for the law enforcement officials and for our  courageous staff who managed to, I think, limit the extent of this tragedy.    As to the question, you know, thankfully, among our 700 health centers and  millions of patients, most of them will never see a protester or experience any  violence. And we can certainly say that this was a disturbed individual. But I  think we can also say that the heated rhetoric and the outrageous and offensive  and often untrue claims can absolutely contribute to a violent person like this  acting out.     And we've seen it before. We heard Ben Carson talking about it  yesterday. And, hopefully, there is agreement that we need to dial back this  kind of attacks on Planned Parenthood that do contribute to an environment that  can be dangerous.   
PEREIRA: So Ben Carson did, in fact, say that the rhetoric needed to be toned down on both sides. But I want you to listen to what Carly Fiorina, another  presidential hopeful, had to say on "Fox News Sunday."    Let's listen to her comments.       
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What I would say to anyone who tries to link this terrible tragedy to anyone who opposes abortion or opposes the sale  of body parts, is this is typical left- wing tactics.       
PEREIRA: What's your reaction to that? LAGUENS: Well, as you know, Carly Fiorina doubled down and then tripled down on what is now proven to be a lie, that  Planned Parenthood has ever sold body parts and outrageous and untrue charge.  And I think it's to some of what your earlier guests said, once you've gone in  with a lie, sometimes it's just hard to get out.    And I think in this case what Carly has done is just say, I'm going to go all  the way and I'm going to politicize something, right in the moment, when it was  almost still happening. They were already out there repeating these charges. And  so I was disappointed to see that.   
PEREIRA: I want to get to the reality on the ground for a lot of women and people in our communities. What you were saying is that many people in your  clinics across the country won't ever see signs of these protests, but we're  getting reports that abortion rights advocates and supporters have reported a  significant up tick in threats of violence in recent months, since those  undercover videos were released.    How seriously did Planned Parenthood take these threats and does take these  treats?   
LAGUENS: Well, the health and safety of our patients is our number one priority. And we have an excellent safety record around that. But there definitely have  been more and more threats and, clearly, more and more heated environment as a  result of some of the rhetoric.    And I would say that the rhetoric is really -- and the heated rhetoric is way  more on one side than the other. But one thing that our patients should know is  that the day after this happened, on Saturday, 28 of 29 health centers in the  Rocky Mountains were open and all across the country. They are open today.   
PEREIRA: That was important for you to do. And explain what the message was. Why was that important for you to keep the doors open?   
LAGUENS: Well, I think that so much of this coverage would suggest that maybe Planned Parenthood isn't open or all of these kinds of things are a regular  occurrence and they just absolutely are not. But Planned Parenthood takes  security very seriously as every law enforcement official who watched the  Colorado situation said.    These were extremely well-trained staff. They acted quickly. They knew exactly  what to do. The health centers are well-designed. The security cameras were a  help in bringing it to an end. And so, you know, I just want people to know that  Planned Parenthood is clearly committed, first and foremost, to the health and  safety of the women it sees.   
PEREIRA: Well, the governor of New York said security is going to be revamp -- ramped up, rather, at all the locations here in the state. We know that you're  re-evaluating security at all the health centers. The concern is that women in  need of health care will be driven elsewhere or will be too fearful to come out  and get help and, perhaps, some of them will even be driven underground, but  that's not what anybody wants.   
LAGUENS: Correct.  
PEREIRA: Dawn Laguens, thank you so much for joining us today. Again, our condolences to all of you who are dealing with this and the aftermath of a  senseless act. Thanks for joining us here on NEW DAY.   
PEREIRA: Thanks, Michaela.   We're following a lot of news on this Monday. Let's get right to it.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The U.N. has organized here in Paris, some 150 heads of state.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These leaders are in pursuit of a climate agreement.  
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We salute the people of Paris for insisting this crucial conference go on.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You could see all the gunshots. Oh, my God, it terrified me.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It looks like a classic case of domestic terrorism.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is somebody who certainly had anti- abortion and anti-government views.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We don't have confirmation from any of the investigation yet as to what the precise motive was.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Police officers in Chicago and Baltimore will face a judge today. Can those trials trigger more violence?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Every time that the federal government looks into one of these individuals, they find something that is kind of unpleasant about  disparities.       
CUOMO: Good morning, welcome to your NEW DAY, this Monday, November 30th, 8:00 in the east. Alisyn and Michaela are in New York and we are in Paris. The  authorities here have all they can handle. Operations are on going. The extent  of the terror network here still not completely known.   
