    
HIGHLIGHT: Investigators have found a connection to ISIS in regards to these terrible shootings in San Bernardino; Tashfeen Malik posted on a Facebook page a  pledge of allegiance to the ISIS leader, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi.     
 CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: And good morning. I'm Carol Costello, reporting live from San Bernardino, California. I would like to welcome our  viewers from around the world.    We have breaking news to pass along to you. Investigators have found a  connection to ISIS in regards to these terrible shootings in San Bernardino.    Jim Sciutto broke the story moments ago. Jim, I want to bring you back in. Tell  us what you know.   
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Here's the latest. As you say, investigators have now established a link to ISIS to the San Bernardino  shootings. This link based on their finding that the wife of the shooter, Rizwan  Malik, that she posted a pledge of allegiance as it were to the ISIS leader Abu  Bakr al Baghdadi, the wife Malik made this on an account with a different name.    Authorities have not told us yet how she made the posting, what device she used.  To be clear here, law enforcement officials look at this as an attack inspired  that was by ISIS, may have been inspired by ISIS but not necessarily directed by  ISIS.    So the inspiration came, but they weren't necessarily under orders from ISIS to  carry out this attack, picking the targets, et cetera. But still a link there  based on the wife, Tashfeen Malik, making this pledge of allegiance to the ISIS  leader Abu Bakr al Baghdadi as the attack was under way.    A law enforcement official tells my colleague Pamela Brown that this is quote,  looking more and more like self-radicalization. Other officials we have talked  to have said that they have not ruled out that they weren't helped along the  way, as it were, to radicalization, influenced by others as often happens with  attacks like this.    I also want to make clear because we talked about this regularly for the last  couple of days about the influence of a workplace dispute on this. Law  enforcement source telling CNN that there is greater focus on the part of  investigators as to whether there was a workplace issue around religion.    So, to be clear, that workplace factor has not been ruled out as an influence in  this case. What is new here is that they have established a link to ISIS in this  case. That the wife there, Tashfeen Malik, pledging allegiance on a Facebook  posting as the attack was under way to the ISIS leader Abu Bakr al Baghdadi.     One other note I would make, Carol, is that there is precedence for  this in other ISIS-inspired attacks. In fact ISIS asks, even demands of its  supporters to make a public posting on social media, on Twitter, on Facebook, as  the attack has been under way. We've seen this in a number of previous attacks  that have been inspired by ISIS as well -- Carol.   
COSTELLO: All right. Jim Sciutto -- thanks.   I want to bring in our CNN terror analyst Paul Cruickshank now to get his  thoughts on this. Paul -- authorities found smashed cell phones, and there's a  missing hard drive near the couple's home. You heard what Jim says --  authorities think that this couple may have had help along the way. That kind of  says there may be a cell operating here. Is that possible?   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERROR ANALYST: Well, Carol -- we don't know if there was a cell behind this or they were just the two of them acting on their own -- on  their own steam.    But Jim's reporting is extremely significant suggesting that this was an ISIS  inspired attack. We have not seen a deadly is inspired attack in United States  to date, by my account. This would be the first time we've actually seen people  killed in an ISIS-inspired attack in the United States.    And it also moves us more toward the notion that this was an Islamist terrorist  attack. And this would be the deadliest, Islamist terrorist attack in the United  States by my count since 9/11. So all of this very significant from Jim Sciutto  -- this new reporting and as he says, there has been a track record for these  ISIS-inspired extremists in the West to pledge allegiance to Abu Bakr al  Baghdadi the leader of ISIS, to ISIS just before these attacks or while they're  under way. We saw that happen in Garland, Texas in May of this year where Elton  Simpson, one of those responsible for the failed attack, they were killed by a  traffic cop before they were able to get into that Draw the Prophet Muhammad  cartoon contest. He pledged on Twitter just before the attack an allegiance to  Abu Bakr al Baghdadi. We actually have the tweet.    In Denmark in February of this year, an attacker who launched an attack on a  free speech event in Copenhagen also killed a Jewish man in Copenhagen, he  posted a pledge of allegiance to Abu Bakr al Baghdadi just minutes before the  attack.    We also saw somebody in France in December of 2014 who launched a knife attack  against police, do a similar thing on his Facebook page where he put the ISIS  flag up.    And in that hostage siege in Australia in December 2014, Man Haron Monis put up  a pledge of allegiance to ISIS on his own web page. So this has consistently  happened -- ISIS encouraging this, celebrating this. And they're reposting these  tweets and Facebook pledges. They're telling these -- the followers around the  world that, by allowing us to take ownership for this, that's almost as  important as launching the attack itself.    So, very, very important reporting from Jim Sciutto; I think this changes the  complexion of how we look at this attack.   
COSTELLO: All right. I'm going to have to take a break. But beside me now is California Congressman Pete Aguilar. And Congressman, I want to get your  thoughts after a break because now there's scary developments this morning. So  I'm going to take a quick break, we'll be back with much more in the NEWSROOM.   
 COSTELLO: And good morning. I'm Carol Costello, live in San Bernardino, California.    Breaking news to pass along to you: investigators have found a connection to  ISIS in the San Bernardino shooting. I'm going to read this off my cell phone  because I want to get it just right.    "As the San Bernardino attack was happening, investigators believe the female  attacker, Tashfeen Malik, posted on Facebook, pledging allegiance to ISIS leader  Abu Bakr al Baghdadi". This is according to three U.S. officials familiar with  the investigation.    The posting was by Malik made on an account with a different name. That's  according to one U.S. official. The officials did not explain how they knew  Malik made that post but this is a very disturbing new development. And as far  as I know, this is the first time such an attack has gone down in the United  States.    Joining me now is California representative Pete Aguilar. So you're just hearing  the news. Your reaction?   
REP. PETE AGUILAR, CALIFORNIA: This is my district. This is my home. This is where I was born and raised. I'm a fourth generation resident of this city and  of this community.    This is shocking. This tragedy has been shocking. We'll continue to grieve and  we'll continue to work with the families and those who have been affected. I've  asked for and received both classified and non-classified briefings from the  FBI. They have been continuing to keep me in touch on the developments.   
COSTELLO: Were you expecting this?  
AGUILAR: You know what I don't think we expect any of this. We didn't expect this tragedy a couple of hundred yards away from where we're standing right now.  So, there's still so much more that we're going to --   
COSTELLO: It just adds such a frightening new dimension to this tragedy.  
AGUILAR: It does. It does. Clearly, as a member of the House Armed Services Committee, we've been asking questions about these issues. We've been talking  about these developments over the years. You know, we don't know this -- I know  this has been reported but nothing has been confirmed. That's a better question  for law enforcement officials clearly but any time --   
COSTELLO: That's one thing that's been frustrating some people, that especially the President hasn't come out and said, this was a terrorist attack. It's cut  and dried. I mean they had a bomb-making lab in their garage.   
AGUILAR: I've been very clear. I've been very clear that this is an act of terror on my community. That's how I feel. That's how this community feels. I'm  less concerned about legal definitions of terrorism and I'm more concerned by my  community members standing with me.     Last night thousands of us came together at a community vigil where  we honored those folks who were affected. And we are going to continue pick up  those pieces, and we're going to continue to move forward. That's what I've been  concerned about.    But I share your comments that -- about what we call this. I've been calling  this an act of terror on my community because that's exactly how I feel.   
COSTELLO: How would you characterize the terrorists of this case?  
AGUILAR: Well, you know, I don't know that I can -- that I can call them anything. I think right now this is an act of terror on my community --  something that was done here in San Bernardino and within the Inland Empire.  It's tragic and shocking.    But what I would continue to say is that this right now as we hear the stories  about the families and as we put pictures to these names, it's just been  devastating for our entire community. And the 14 that lost their lives, the 21  that are injured, but the hundreds more who have been affected who are in Inland  Regional Center standing behind you, and the hospital staff and the first  responders. I mean all of those folks, you know, we need to stand with and we  need to work with.   
COSTELLO: In the bigger picture, in the war against ISIS, some Americans don't think we're doing enough, especially in Syria and in Iraq. Your thoughts -- what  should we do now?    Well, there's more that we need to do, clearly. And the House Armed Services  committee has had hearings on this. I think people on both sides of the aisle  have had discussions about what more we can do. You know, we stand ready as  members of congress and as members of the committee.    We stand ready to hear what the administration is doing and to give adequate  oversight and to give our opinions on things that we need to be doing in order  to combat this threat.   
COSTELLO: Any thoughts on one specific thing we need to do?  
AGUILAR: Well, I think, you know, no-fly zones is something that the committee has talked about. Those can be done, offering safe refuge for individuals to be  trained to fight ISIS as well as those refugees who are fleeing a terrible,  terrible situation. You know, that's just one thing that we can and should be  looking to.    But I just want to be very clear that this is something that is still  developing. You know, law enforcement needs to comment on this. I'll continue to  ask for briefings. And this is -- I've called this a threat on my community here  in San Bernardino County.   
COSTELLO: Congressman, thank you so much for being with me this morning. I appreciate it.   
AGUILAR: Thank you.  
COSTELLO: I'm going to take a quick break. We'll be back with much more in the NEWSROOM.   
 COSTELLO: And welcome back to San Bernardino, California where we're following breaking news this morning.    Authorities have found a connection to ISIS in the San Bernardino attack.  Apparently the female attacker posted on a Facebook page, a pledge of allegiance  to the ISIS leader, al Baghdadi.    I want to bring in CNN terror analyst Paul Cruickshank. When you piece together  all that we know so far, this couple had this bomb- making lab in their garage,  destroyed cell phones and deleting hard drives from their home. They wore  military, fatigue type clothes, they had their faces covered, they were heavily  armed, and now this pledge to al Baghdadi. What do you make of this, Paul?   
CRUICKSHANK: I think the scenario we may now be looking at is this couple may have been planning something; some form of terrorist attack in the United States  on behalf of ISIS. But something that happened at that holiday party, we're  hearing perhaps an argument over religion, may have brought forward those plans  and brought forward those plans perhaps dramatically.    And they, perhaps, just decided to go straight out and do what they could then  at the holiday party. They didn't bring all the bombs they had. There were 12  pipe bombs left in their garage. Maybe they brought forward their plans. We  don't know yet whether that was the case. But the fact that we're hearing that  there was this altercation, perhaps an argument over religion, suggests that  type of scenario. The FBI is going to do a lot more investigating and they'll go  where the facts lead them.     This does appear now to be in the ISIS column, the ISIS-inspired  column. We can expect ISIS to claim ownership of this attack in a big way to  make propaganda over it.    I think the fact this came so soon after the Paris attacks, you have to ask  yourself the question, were they inspired by what they saw play out in Paris?  That ISIS-directed attacks on the streets of Europe, did that play some role in  speeding up perhaps their plans?    That's the kind of thing investigators are going to be looking at; very, very  difficult to get precise answers because they are both, after all, dead.   
COSTELLO: That's true. Paul Cruickshank -- many thanks.   And thanks you all joining me today. I'm in San Bernardino. I'm Carol Costello.    "AT THIS HOUR" with Berman and Bolduan after a break.   
JOHN BERMAN, CNN HOST: Hello everyone. I'm John Berman.  
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN HOST: Hi, everyone. I'm Kate Bolduan. Thanks for joining us. We're following breaking news out of California following that massacre in San  Bernardino.    Investigators have found a connection -   
