    
HIGHLIGHT: They made it clear, a group of 100 black pastors weren't all sold on endorsing Donald Trump, but they still showed up for a closed- door meeting with  the Republican front-runner, and the Trump campaign had initially billed this as  a sweeping endorsement from the coalition of pastors, but they walked that back  after several of the pastors basically said, no, no, we're just here to talk.  Republican presidential candidate, Chris Christie, is getting another key  endorsement in New Hampshire, and just days after the New Hampshire "Union  Leader" endorsed the New Jersey governor, activist, Renee Plummer, is throwing  her support behind Christie's campaign, and in an interview, Governor Christie  spoke about his stance on national security. Indonesian officials just released  the findings into last year's AirAsia plane crash, and according to their  report, there were a series of technical failures on the AirAsia A320, highly  technical concerning the so-called flight augmentation computers, which created  the crisis in the cockpit, however, the actual cause of the plane stalling was  the way the pilot then responded to that, and according to the report, it was  the way the pilot manually flew the plane, which eventually led to the plane  crashing. A big press conference in Chicago where Mayor Rahm Emanuel is  addressing the developments in the Laquan McDonald case amid accusations of a  cover-up.     
 BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN ANCHOR: All right, Jean, this is going to be ongoing. We know you're following it for us.    Thank you so much.    Jean Casarez for us in Baltimore.    Coming up, new endorsements and a new beef with Donald Trump. How Governor Chris  Christie is ruffling the Republican front-runner's feathers.    Plus, more than three minutes of terror. We have new details about the crash of  an AirAsia flight and why the pilots are being blamed for it.   
KEILAR: They made it clear, a group of 100 black pastors weren't all sold on endorsing Donald Trump, but they still showed up for a closed- door meeting with  the Republican front-runner.    Here's how Donald Trump said the meeting went.       
DONALD TRUMP,, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE & CEO, TRUMP ORGANIZATION: We actually didn't think we would be having a press conference, but we all thought it was  such a good meeting, we would do that. We have many, many endorsements that came  out of the meeting.    And I saw love in that room. I see love everywhere I go.       
 KEILAR: Well, the Trump campaign had initially billed this as a sweeping endorsement from the coalition of pastors, but they walked that back  after several of the pastors basically said, no, no, we're just here to talk.    Joining me now is Reverend William Owens, the president and founder of the  Coalition of African-American Pastors.    Reverend, thank you for being with us. Tell us, you know, where do you stand  when it comes to Donald Trump?   
REV. WILLIAM OWENS, PRESIDENT & FOUNDER, COALITION OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN PASTORS: Oh, when it comes to Donald Trump, we're not endorsing anybody at this point,  because, first of all, we're going to have our own news conference. And we're  going to set the stage for what we expect our next president, the standards that  he should come up to. I do admire Donald Trump for reaching out to black  pastors. And the last election it was like black people did not exist. So, I do  admire him for reaching out to the black pastors, regardless of how it went. And  we're not endorsing anyone at this point, but we're going to make our position  clear before we go to them, talk to them individually. We want all of the  candidates to know what we expect of our next president as it relates to the  African-Americans in this country.   
KEILAR: You feel that black pastors were ignored in the last election overall, by Republicans? Can you explain what you meant by that?   
OWENS: I know they were ignored. I don't feel it. I know it.  
KEILAR: By both sides, is that what you're saying?  
OWENS: They were -- they were denied the right to be heard by the Republican Party. I personally went to the president and offered 12 pastors to be advisers  to the Republicans, and he turned me down. With no pay, because we don't take  shakedowns. And he turned me down. We're going to be sure that doesn't happen  this time. The black voice will be heard.   
KEILAR: Do you think Donald Trump in this meeting yesterday was able to sway some of his critics?   
OWENS: He was probably able to sway some of them, but I never would have done it the way they did. That's the reason we did not participate. We're in dialogue  with his staff, but I never would have done it that way because you get 100  people and you don't know where they're coming from. You haven't had -- you have  developed no understanding, no common ground. And what happened had to happen.  It was going to happen like that, so we didn't participate.   
KEILAR: What do you think Donald Trump would mean for the black community? He obviously has taken on Black Lives Matter. He in late November implied that a  Black Lives Matter protester should have been roughed up at one of his events.  How do you think African-Americans across the country relate to him knowing  that?   
OWENS: Well, I think -- well, I think that the person being roughed up was wrong, but also when the Black Lives Matter interrupted the Democrats when they  were having a meeting and just took over, they laid the foundation for that type  thing to happen. And if you get my newsletters, you know that I addressed it.  And I said that this is not the way you do it. There is a way you protest,  there's a way you make your desires be known, but not to go in and interrupt  another person's meeting. They grabbed Sanders' mic, he caved in. Hillary  Clinton caves in to what they consider a new movement of Black Lives Matter.  Well, to me, all lives matter. So, they set a bad example. And I said that. I  said, somebody is going to pattern after them and they don't know what they're  going to get. You cannot go in another person's meeting and take over and be  violent and take over that meeting. And then the person that you take that  meeting over let you do it and that person gets away with it, and that sends a  signal to all black people that you can just go in and ruffle up and take over a  meeting. It's not realistic. That's not the way we did the civil rights  movement. I was in the civil rights movement. That is not the way you do it.   
KEILAR: I do want you to listen to some African-American pastors who are clearly very divided on their support for Donald Trump. Here it is.       
REV. JAMAL BRYANT, EMPOWERMENT TEMPLE AME CHURCH: I want to apologize because prostitutes get money. And the 100 that walked away with nothing, they did it  for free. So, there's another word for that. And I would not use that language  on a family channel.   
DR. STEVE PARSON, PASTOR: I'm tired of the black Americans being at the bottom of the barrel and the poorest people in America. We need to create wealth.  Donald Trump knows how to do that.       
 KEILAR: So you see this division. Where do you see the fault line here, reverend?   
OWENS: I think it is true that black Americans are at the bottom, but you're not going to do it with give me, give me, give me. What happened to President  Kennedy's speech when he said, ask not what you can do -- what your country can  do for you, but what can you do for your country? And that is going to be in our  news conference, which will be very hard-hitting. I will reveal some things that  I didn't even know myself and I lived through all of that. I will reveal some  things as to why even the candidate Bush said black people always want things.  We always want things.    At my age, I worked 15 hours a day. I grew up starting in a two-room house with  11 people living in it. And most of our family became educated through hard  work. And some people that promise you that they're going to give you, give you,  give you, that's like buying your vote. You're prostituting yourself.   
KEILAR: Reverend?  
OWENS: And for the person who said that they -- Yes?  
KEILAR: I'm so sorry. We actually have to jump out of this interview right now.   Reverend William Owens, thank you so much. We'll be watching for your press  conference. As you say, there will be some developments there. We'll be watching  for that. Republican presidential candidate, Chris Christie, is getting another  key endorsement in New Hampshire. Just days after the New Hampshire "Union  Leader" endorsed the New Jersey governor, activist, Renee Plummer, is throwing  her support behind Christie's campaign.    We have CNN special correspondent, Jamie Gangel, who sat down with Governor  Christie. She's joining us now to talk about their conversation.    Jamie, you had the chance to talk to the governor about his stance on national  security. What did he say?   
JAMIE GANGEL, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: Brianna, I asked him about resettling refugees in his state. He's not shy about criticizing President Obama on the  issue, and he's not backing down from his comments about not wanting to take in  child refugees.       
GANGEL: Syria and the refugee crisis, you recently said, "We shouldn't take orphans under the age of 5." Isn't it a little absurd to say that? Do you regret  saying that?   
CHRIS CHRISTIE,, NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR & PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: No. First of all, I've got to ask the question directly, OK? We should not take any refugee  from anywhere unless they can be vetted. That's it. That's it.   
GANGEL: President Obama responded to you and indicated -- he didn't say it by name -- but he said, "Republicans are scared of women and orphans."   
CHRISTIE: Yeah, widows and orphans, I think is what he said. I will tell you, the widows and orphans I'm concerned about are the widows and orphans of 9/11  that I still live with every day in New Jersey. And I want to make sure there's  not another generation of them created. Maybe the president should spend some of  his damn time worrying about that and less for scoring political points with his  U.N. crowd. Because what he said was insulting. Absolutely insulting. I care  more about protecting the American people than I care about scoring points with  his Noble Peace Prize friends. That's all he cares about. He doesn't care. He  has shown repeatedly that he prioritizes that over protecting homeland security.  He did it by getting rid of the NSA metadata program. He's done it over and over  again. So, quite frankly, being lectured by Barack Obama on foreign policy and  national security is laughable. Laughable. From the community organizer.   
GANGEL: Today, a Syrian refugee family with five children, age 3 to 17, and the mother is pregnant, is being settled in Paterson, New Jersey, by an interfaith  group, Christians, Muslims, Jews. You have said New Jersey is not going to take  in --       
CHRISTIE: Does not want to. I didn't say not going to. I said, doesn't want to. We don't have the authority to stop them. But what I'd like is, if the president  would share the information with us. But he doesn't.   
GANGEL: This family is now scared. They were going to do an interview and they're now scared because they're Africa you're going to try to kick them out  of New Jersey.   
CHRISTIE: Listen, that's ridiculous. And I never said that I was going to try to kick any individual family out of New Jersey. But I want these families vetted.  And what's he going to say to the families if one of these refugees comes in  here and kills Americans? What's he going to say? Oops, my bad? We're all  warning him. Do your job, Mr. President. Protect the national security of the  American people first. Worry about all the rest of this stuff afterwards. And  maybe if you had done your job in Syria, the way you were supposed to, these  people wouldn't have to be leaving their country. But instead, he lied about  that, too, and walked away from his commitments.    So again, Jamie, being lectured by the president of the United States is  laughable.   
 GANGEL: Last question, now that "The New York Times" is being so nice to you --       
CHRISTIE: I'm sure it's temporary insanity. Don't worry. They'll get back to their normal course with me.   
GANGEL: You very publicly canceled your subscription.  
CHRISTIE: I did. I did a long time ago.  
GANGEL: Now that they say you're the comeback kid --  
CHRISTIE: No chance.  
GANGEL: -- you're not going to renew it?  
CHRISTIE: Oh, no chance. Zero chance.      
GANGEL: Brianna, classic Chris Christie.   You know, he's had a very good couple of weeks, but he still has a long way to  go in the polls. Even in New Hampshire, he's just over 5 percent.   
KEILAR: And he is attracting these endorsements. That's getting him a lot of attention, Jamie. It's sort of -- it's like once you sort of stick your head out  a little bit as a candidate and you're going, OK, Donald Trump comes after you.  That's what we've seen with Christie. What did the governor say about that? 
GANGEL: Exactly. I have two words to say about it, game on. If Christie keeps rising in the polls, Trump -- it doesn't matter that they've been friends for 13  years. He's going to go after him. And I think what we should watch is the month  of January. Because if Christie goes up, Trump's going to go after him. And  Christie has been very measured in his comments, thus far, about Trump. But he  said, if necessary, he will counter-punch. So you can only imagine.   
KEILAR: Interesting. So many people think that's really the key for a Republican getting past Trump, but we will see.    Jamie Gangel, great interview. Thank you so much.   
GANGEL: Thank you.  
KEILAR: Coming up, terrifying new details in the AirAsia crash that killed more than 160 people. What investigators say likely sparked a horrifying  minutes'-long roller coaster ride in the sky before a deadly impact with the  sea.    Plus, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel is fighting back amid accusations of a  cover-up. Will he survive this political firestorm surrounding the killing of  Laquan McDonald? We're moments away from his big news conference.   
 KEILAR: A computer malfunction and pilot error were the most likely causes of last December's AirAsia crash. 162 people when flight 8501 went down  on a flight from Indonesia to Singapore. Weather did not appear to be a factor.  And the year-long investigation found that AirAsia did not have clearance to  take that route on that day. The plane climbed from 32,000 feet to 37,400 feet  in just 30 seconds. The flight control computer malfunctions as it had 23 times  before. And the plane rolled 104 degree and it crashed three minutes and 40  seconds later. Investigators say that pilots lacked the training to recover.    For more, let's go to CNN's Richard Quest, joining from Dubai.    Richard, why couldn't they have handled the emergency, Richard? It seems they  should have been able to.   
RICHARD QUEST, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT & CNN ANCHOR, QUEST MEANS BUSINESS: What happened here was a series of accidents, incidents and mistakes, if you'd  like, but what it really comes down to is that the pilots embarked on a series  of actions that they didn't know the full consequences of. You had this  mechanical fault which is serious, but by no means catastrophic, but one of the  pilots pulled the circuit breaker trying to short circuit the issue, and the  next thing that you know the plane did something that it was supposed to do, but  they weren't expecting it to the happen, and then they weren't able to recover  from that. And so you have situation where the pilots didn't have the training  and the experience if you'd like or the knowledge of the aircraft to handle this  situation. Which is raising, Brianna, the fundamental issue in aviation at the  moment, highly sophisticated aircraft with pilots that are not used to, if you'd  like, flying the planes at altitude.   
KEILAR: This is what is something that is of interest in the findings here, Richard. One of the investigators said that the pilot issued confusing  instructions in the emergency.   
QUEST: Yes, what is happening is that one is calling pull, pull, pull, and what does he mean pull up? Well, he means pull down. That the pilot in command, and  meanwhile this second in command, the younger guy who was flying is pulling back  on the side stick, and for some reason that we do not know, he is raising the  nose and the pitch of the aircraft which is ultimately called the stall. It is  similar and the facts are different, but the circumstances are very similar to  Air France 447 where you have a technical fault, which is by no means  catastrophic, which leads to a series of incidents where the pilots mis-fly the  aircraft.    One thought on this, Boeing pilots will tell you -- this was an Airbus -- Boeing  pilots will tell you that many of the mistakes that happened here could not have  happened on the Boeing, because the pilots can feel each other's controls  movements, which you can't do and an Airbus.   
 KEILAR: Very interesting.   All right, Richard Quest thanks so much.    And I want to tell the viewers that we are moments away from a big press  conference by Chicago mayor, Rahm Emanuel. He will be addressing the police  shooting of African-American teenager, Laquan McDonald. We will bring it to you  live.   
 ASHLEIGH BANFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. I'm Ashleigh Banfield.    I want to take you live to Chicago where the mayor is speaking live at this  moment.   
RAHM EMANUEL,, CHICAGO MAYOR: I feel strongly as the mayor of Chicago that we face our own questions and our own judgments. The horrifying shooting of Mr.  McDonald requires more than words of sadness. It requires that we act, that we  take more concrete steps to prevent such abuses in the future, secure the rights  and safety of all Chicagoans, and build stronger bonds of trust between our  police department, the men and women that make up that department, and the  communities they are sworn to serve and protect.    While I don't believe that the actions of Officer Van Dyke reflect the vast  majority of the men and women who risk their lives every day to protect our  lives, I also know that the use of excessive force and misuse of authority is  not new in Chicago.   
