    
HIGHLIGHT: And we begin this hour with the war on ISIS as Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States are stepping up their efforts. The Pentagon says  it's sending more Special Operations Forces to help fight ISIS in Iraq; And in  Berlin, lawmakers will start debate on a plan approved by the German Cabinet for  expanded military assistance in the fight against ISIS. It includes  reconnaissance jets, a naval frigate and up to 1200 troops; In Chicago, there's  more fallout over a video that shows a white police officer shooting and killing  an African-American teenager. The mayor has forced the police superintendent to  resign. And now the Illinois Attorney General is calling for a Federal  investigation of the police department; Yahoo may be looking for a buyer. The  Wall Street Journal reports that Yahoo's board will meet several times this week  to consider selling its core internet business and maybe it's lucrative stake in  Alibaba; Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan are  celebrating the birth of their baby daughter, Max, by pledging to give away a  fortune; Republican U.S. presidential front-runner Donald Trump is telling his  political rivals to hit him, but he warns, he hits back. Attacking his opponents  has been a staple of Trump's presidential campaign; Myanmar's opposition leader,  Aung San Suu Kyi has met with the country's current president to discuss the  transfer of power; the Russian pilot who was killed when Turkey downed his jet  is being buried in his hometown of Lipetsk. Oleg Peshkov was killed after Turkey  shot down the war plane near the Syrian border; it's now day three of the COP21  climate change conference in Paris. Most of the heads of state have gone home.  It's now up to thousands of representatives to hash out the details and hammer  out a resolution; people in Alaska's capital react to the mysterious death of  their newly elected mayor; CNN's Freedom project has been asking you to help  fight modern day slavery by joining its Fly to Freedom campaign; this week marks  the 50th anniversary of a Charlie Brown Christmas. The animated television  special featuring the Peanuts Gang first aired in 1965; the Southern Indian City  of Chennai where over 300 millimeters of rain fell in less than 18 hours on  Tuesday. The airport was closed for several hours because the runways were  flooded.         
 ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN NEWSROOM SHOW HOST: Welcome to our viewers here in the United States and all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. This is CNN  Newsroom.    And we begin this hour with the war on ISIS as Germany, the United Kingdom, and  the United States are stepping up their efforts. The Pentagon says it's sending  more Special Operations Forces to help fight ISIS in Iraq.    Defense Secretary Ash Carter says they will be able to conduct raids, free  hostages, gather intelligence and capture ISIS leaders.    Thousands of protesters in London are urging the British Parliament to vote  against a proposal for U.K. air strikes on ISIS in Syria. Lawmakers will begin a  marathon debate in just a few hours from now, with a vote later on Wednesday.       
DAVID CAMERON, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: It is part of a broader strategy. It's about the politics and the diplomacy and the humanitarian aid, all of which we  need to bring to bear, to bring peace to Syria, but to make sure we protect our  interests, our national interests of fighting against this appalling terrorist  organization.       
CHURCH: And in Berlin, lawmakers will start debate on a plan approved by the German Cabinet for expanded military assistance in the fight against ISIS. It  includes reconnaissance jets, a naval frigate and up to 1200 troops.    Atika Schubert is following developments in Berlin, but we start with Max Foster  live in London out the front of the House of Commons. So, Max, parliament is set  to hold an all-day debate on whether to support air strikes in Syria, how likely  is it that they will vote to expand air raids against ISIS in Syria. MAX FOSTER, 
CNN NEWSROOM SHOW CO-HOST: It's pretty likely. David Cameron said he didn't -- he wouldn't bring this vote to parliament if he didn't feel confident that it  would get through. So, they've been doing all the work behind the scenes and  adding up the number of MPs that would support this Syria vote and he seems  confident that he will have enough votes.    So, we do think it's going to go through, by how many? That's the question.  There's a big debate on the opposition side about whether or not to support  David Cameron. Just to explain, Jeremy Corbin is leader of the opposition labor  party. He's firmly against the war, but he has allowed a free vote for his MPs.    Although his MPs are under a huge amount of pressure to go with him on the vote.  But David Cameron feels confident he will get enough labor MPs to support him.  Lots of questions about the war and concern about it.    And we understand that some MPs have been under the sort of pressure that you  get on Twitter or on e-mail that they are supporting a war which will kill women  and children, so they feel this pressure.    But they also feel that ISIS does needs to be confronted in some way, and David  Cameron is giving that option. On his side as well, David Cameron's conservative  MPs,70,000 or so, rebel fighters in Syria who are  effectively a ground source.    But that raises all sorts of questions. Can they work together and can he unite  them against ISIS. But actually they're fighting the Assad regime. They're not  necessarily just fighting ISIS. So, whether or not any of that will work, and  that's what the debate will be about here.    So, David Cameron still got some convincing to do. And you remember, Rosemary,  after the Iraq war, Tony Blair, the then Prime Minister was under huge amounts  of pressure. It was seemed to have messed that up in many ways because they  didn't think about what will happen after the war.    So, he also was going to have to explain who is going to be in charge of Syria  after this, what sort of support in Syria and the Syrian people are going to get  after this. All the sorts of debate are happening in other countries as well  about whether or not to get involved in this conflict.    But to David Cameron, he needs the support of parliament because he doesn't want  to make the same sort of mistakes as Tony Blair. He want unilaterally ahead with  the war in Iraq pretty much and is now seen as making a huge mistake. David  Cameron wants to share the decision.   
 CHURCH: All right. Many thanks to our Max Foster there who will be monitoring that debate from London. Let's go now to Atika Schubert, as we told  you she is in Berlin. And, Atika, let's talk about what Germany is planning in  this fight against ISIS.   
ATIKA SHUBERT, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the Cabinet has approved a one year mandate for up to maximum about 1200 German troops going in  to help the fight against ISIS. But the key here is that none of these troops  will be, excuse me, in a combat role.    This will be simply be really logistical support for those French flights, for  example, striking ISIS now. So, what Germany is sending in is tornado jets for  reconnaissance flights, mid-air refueling jets that will allow the French  strikers to extend their range, for example.    There will also be a navy frigate that will be involved to help support, as  well. So, this is something that has been proposed by the Cabinet. It's been  approved. Now it needs to be debated in parliament at the Bundestag.    So, what they will be doing is having that debate in a few hours. That debate  will then continue on Friday and that's when we are expecting to get a vote,  Rosemary.   
CHURCH: And while it's being debated, what about the public there in Germany? How do they feel about all of this?   
SHUBERT: Well, I think the public is going to this with a bit of caution. But there doesn't seem to be much controversy about it as there is in the U.K. It's  expected to pass pretty easily. There's not much debate, I mean, not much  opposition to it in parliament, perhaps from the far left from the green party.    But Angela Merkel's grand coalition generally supports around this. In terms of  the general public, there has been some talk and concern about whether or not  being part of this coalition against ISIS could expose Germany to more terror  threats, more on the possibility of terror attacks.    But, as we know, Germany is also, has also received its fair share of terror  threats. We know, for example, a game in -- a football game in Hannover was  canceled on concrete information of the possibility of an attack.    So, for many people here, they feel what we're already being threatened. This  may be the best way to go forward possibly to prevent further terror threats.   
CHURCH: All right. Many thanks to our Atika Schubert there live in Berlin as that debate goes forward in Germany on how to push for the fight against ISIS. I  appreciate that.    Well, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi says there's no need for foreign  troops on the ground and any military operation must be coordinated with his  government. That comes after the U.S. announced plans to send additional Special  Operations Forces to fight ISIS in Iraq.    Pentagon correspondent Barbara Starr reports.   
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Hundreds of U.S. Special Operations and support Forces heading to dangerous ground in Iraq and Syria.       
ASH CARTER, U.S. SECRERARY OF DEFENSE: These special operators will, over time, be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather intelligence, and capture ISIL  leaders. This force will also be in a position to conduct unilateral operations  in Syria.       
STARR: The announcement to send more forces coming after the attacks in Paris. The military will now do more risky missions, such as the Special Operations  hostage rescue raid in October where Master Sergeant Joshua Wheeler was killed  in action.       
CARTER: We're good at intelligence. We're good at mobility. We're good at surprise. We have the long reach that no one else has. And it puts everybody on  notice in Syria that you don't know at night who is going to be coming in the  window. And that's the sensation that we want all of ISIL's leadership and  followers to have.       
STARR: The new forceful number just dozens of commandos, but they will have significant backup. Helicopters to get to their targets. Rescue forces if they  run into trouble. Potentially, some 200 troops in all, official say.    All of this as a separate group of 50 Special Operations Forces are to arrive at  any time in Northern Syria to assist anti-ISIS forces there. The chairman of the  Joint Chiefs underscoring the U.S. need better intelligence.       
JOSEPH DUNFORD, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF CHAIRMAN: Our effectiveness is in, obviously, in expected linked to the quality of intelligence we have. And our  assessment is that this force and the operations, this force will conduct, will  provide us additional intelligence that will make our operations much more  effective.       
STARR: A raid in Syria that killed a top ISIS operative Abu Sayyaf in May, provided an initial trove of intelligence, leading to improved information about  ISIS. Two operatives still in the U.S. crosshairs.     ISIS' leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and Abu Muhammad al- Adnani said  to be involved in plotting future attacks in the West.    U.S. officials telling CNN, it still could be days or weeks before the U.S.  Forces arrive.    Barbara Starr, CNN, the Pentagon 
. CHURCH: And we want to get more on this. Iwant to bring in CNN military analyst, Lieutenant Colonel Rick Francona. He joins us live from La Quinta in California.    So, Rick, U.S. Special Ops Forces will now be heading to Iraq and Syria to  conduct raids, free hostages, gather Intel and capture ISIS leaders.    How significant is this shift in U.S. policy and what impact is it likely to  have on the fight against ISIS going forward?   
RICK FRANCONA, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, I think it will have a good impact because, instead of being in a train assist advise role, these are actually  combat forces going in to conduct direct operations. This is no longer are we  going to put boots on the ground. We are putting boots on the ground.    And this is not going to be on a standoff role. These are going to be combat  forces. So, I don't know how the U.S. administration is going to spin this. They  are going to say they're not boots on the ground and on combat role. I don't see  how they can do that.    So, this represents a real shift. I think it's an admission that what we're  doing so far hasn't worked. And this is the next step. A lot of people are  concerned that the next step, of course, is what we call mission creeps, we're  getting more involved, what if this doesn't work, are we going to beef up the  presence yet further? So, there's a lot of concern in the U.S. about this.   
CHURCH: Yes. In a way, they can't win, can they? Because if they don't do this, then they're accused of not doing enough. And if they do, then it's mission  creeps.   
FRANCONA: Exactly.  
CHURCH: So, how do you deal with that problem?  
FRANCONA: Yes. And I think that the administration is going to have to come out and address just what their goal is here. I listened to the secretary and the  chairman's testimony today, and, you know, they were quite -- they didn't want  to really come out and say exactly how big of a step this is, but I think this  is major.    And when the secretary said that they will also conduct unilateral missions into  Syria, this is really a sea change from where we are today. I think it's a good  step. You know, I've been arguing this for all along and I still think we ought  to continue more of the Special Ops personnel in there conducting and  controlling the air strikes.    So, what we're looking at I think is a real shift in the American attitude in  just what it's going to take to defeat ISIS. Obviously, the Iraqis aren't  getting it done. I don't think the Kurds have the combat power required to do  it. So, it looks like we're going to try and do it ourselves.   
CHURCH: I did want to ask you this. Former intelligence head retired Lieutenant General Michael Flynn told CNN Tuesday, that the White House ignored reports  warning of the rise of ISIS in 2011, 2012. Because it didn't fit their  re-election narrative, his words. And he said Obama is in a circle was giving  him incorrect advice. What's your reaction to his comments?   
FRANCONA: Yes. I was -- I was a little surprised to hear that because, you know, General Flynn was part of that whole operation at the time. So, his advice,  obviously, he feel was being ignored. But, you know, those of us on the outside,  all of us retired, watching what was going on, it was pretty obvious to us that  there was this power vacuum, especially in Syria being created by the lack of  the West help to the Syrian rebels.    And Al Qaeda in Iraq sent people over there. They created what is now ISIS. And  I thought it was pretty easy to see. I just don't think that the administration  wanted to deal with it at the time.   
CHURCH: All right. Lieutenant Colonel Rick Francona joining us there from California. Many thanks to you.    Well, Pakistan has executed four Taliban militants tied to a deadly school  attack in Peshawar. You may recall at least 145 people, mostly school children,  were killed in the December 2014 massacre. Seven people were given a death  sentence and another got life in prison from a Pakistani military cord back in  August for their roles in the attack.    Donald Trump, the man who wants to be President of the United States has a  message for his rivals. Bring it on. Hear why he thinks even the nice guy in the  race will come at him swinging.    Plus, Chicago's Mayor forces the police superintendent to step down with the  controversy growing over a deadly police shooting. That story, still to come.  Stay with us.       
RACHEL NICHOLS, CNN SPORTS HEADLINE REPORTER: I'm Rachel Nichols with your CNN World Sport headline.    Manchester City's parent company has made a big move toward a foothold in the  most lucrative corner of the globe. On Tuesday, the City Football Group  announced it sold a 13 percent stake of the company to a group of investors  backed by the Chinese government.    The CFG group already has a growing empire that includes Manchester, the United  States, Australia, and Japan. And now, a conduit to grow their business in one  of the world's most booming markets.    And the citizens were in action on Tuesday in the capital one cup quarterfinal  against Hull City. We thought going in this might be a mismatch, and sure  enough, Kevin De Bruyne with two goals. The first, taking advantage of that  defensive error by Hull. But he wasn't done.    His second was this beautifully crafted free kick. Look at this. The keeper, no  shot. City wins it, 4 to 1. And that's nine goals and eight assists in 15 starts  for De Bruyne.    The NBA has just named the Golden State Warriors Luke Walton its Western coach  of the month. Walton, of course, is the coach who has led the team to a record  19 and 0 start. But the only quirk, Walton isn't the Warrior's official coach.  He's the interim while head Coach Steve Kerr remains out after back surgery.    So, on the NBA's official record, it's Kerr who gets credit for all the team's  wins, but Luke Walton who is enjoying it all, unofficially of course.    That's a look at your Sports Headlines. I'm Rachel Nichols.   
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. In Chicago, there's more fallout over a video that shows a white police officer shooting and killing an African-American  teenager.    The mayor has forced the police superintendent to resign. And now the Illinois  Attorney General is calling for a Federal investigation of the police  department.    Ed Lavandera shows us what led up to this.   
ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Six seconds, that was the time it took for Officer Jason Van Dyke to leave his vehicle and open fire on Laquan McDonald,  killing him on the spot. It is these six seconds that have rocked the City of  Chicago with protesters citing distrust and a lack of transparency within the  Chicago Police Department.    The dash cam video released last week by order of a judge revealed some  discrepancies regarding what happened the night McDonald was killed. Including  the initial claim by police that the 17-year-old had lunged at officers.       
PAT CAMDEN, CHICAGO FRATERNAL ORDER OF POLICE SPOKESPERSON: Going at one of the officers, at that point the officer defends himself.       
LAVANDERA: It's a claim the McDonald family attorney says the video does not support.       
MICHAEL ROBBINS, LAQUAN MCDONALD FAMILY ATTORNEY: The video clearly shows Laquan walking away and he was not threatening anybody and he certainly didn't lunge at  the police officer. This was originally presented as an act of self-defense.       
LAVANDERA: The Chicago Police Department initially claimed that McDonald was shot in the chest. An autopsy later revealed he was shot a total of 16 times,  nine of which were in the back. Another issue, there's an 86-minute gap in  surveillance video from a local Burger King. The police dash cam video shows  McDonald running through the restaurant's parking lot. The Burger King manager  allege that surveillance video was reviewed by police then they deleted it,  erasing potentially pivotal evidence.     The top prosecutor in Chicago says the video was not tampered with.  But the manager says in part, "I was just trying to help the police with their  investigation. I didn't know they were going to delete it."    Former Chicago Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy quickly swatted down those  allegations.       
GARRY MCCARTHY, FORMER CHICAGO POLICE SUPERINTENDENT: Yes, it's absolutely not true. And I think the state's attorney addressed that today. There were  apparently technical difficulties, but in no way, shape or form is there any  evidence that anything was tampered with.       
LAVANDERA: But perhaps the darkest cloud of controversy continues to be how the Chicago Police Department seemingly went to great lengths and costs to try to  make sure the public would never see the video.    First, there was the $5 million settlement paid to the family. Critics say that  was, in part, to keep the video from ever being released. Then the questions  emerging about why the Chicago Police Department continued to employ Officer Van  Dyke for a full year, before pressing charges.    Van Dyke had 20 complaints against him, 10 of them for use of force. The police  only suspending him without pay the day before. A judge's deadline for the  release of the dash cam video.       
ANITA ALVAREZ, COOK COUNTY STATE'S ATTORNEY: I felt compelled, in the interest of public safety, to announce these state charges today.       
LAVANDERA: For some in Chicago, that was too little, too late.   Ed Lavandera, CNN, Chicago.   
CHURCH: Yahoo may be looking for a buyer. The Wall Street Journal reports that Yahoo's board will meet several times this week to consider selling its core  internet business and maybe it's lucrative stake in Alibaba.    Yahoo's CEO has struggled for years to reverse the company's decline in sales. A  spokesman for Yahoo has not responded yet to a request for comment. Facebook  founder, Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan are celebrating the birth  of their baby daughter, Max, by pledging to give away a fortune.    In a letter to their week-old daughter, the couple said they planned to donate  99 percent of their Facebook stock to charity during their lifetime. They say  they want to leave the world a better place for their daughter and all children.  Their shares are currently valued at $45 billion.    Republican U.S. presidential front-runner Donald Trump is telling his political  rivals to hit him, but he warns, he hits back. Attacking his opponents has been  a staple of Trump's presidential campaign.    And a senior Washington correspondent Jeff Zeleny reports, he has some new  targets.   
JEFF ZELENY, CNN SENIOR WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Donald Trump is urging his rival to bring it on.       
DONALD TRUMP,U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: So far, let's see, Christie hasn't hit me yet. He will. At some point, Rubio has got to hit me.       
ZELENY: Bravado from the republican front-runner, exactly two months before from the Iowa Caucuses kick off the 2016 campaign.       
TRUMP: Even I think Cruz is going to have to hit me because, you know, he's a nice guy.       
ZELENY: After defending Trump for months, Texas Senator Ted Cruz is suddenly on the rise and may not be a nice guy in Trump's eyes much longer.       
TRUMP: He's been so supportive, but at some point he's going to have to hit me, right? It's going to be a sad day. But we will hit back, I promise.       
ZELENY: Hitting back has become a Trump trade mark. Few republicans have escaped his buzz saw. Cruz is running neck and neck with Trump in one Iowa poll and  already making a bold prediction.   
TED CRUZ,U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Let me be very clear. I don't believe Donald Trump is going to be our nominee. I don't believe  he's going to be our president.       
ZELENY: Cruz appears to be taking a play from Trump's play book making attention grabbing comments of his own. Asked about birth control in Iowa, Cruz says he  knows of no conservatives who flat out oppose contraception. He says he and his  wife do not, sharing they were happy they had two girls, not 17.       
CRUZ: Last I checked, we don't have a rubber shortage in America.      
CRUZ: Look, when I was in college, we had a machine in the bathroom. You put 50 cents in and, viola.           
ZELENY: But many religious organizations are opposed to birth control. He also told radio host Hugh Hewitt, democrats commit more violent crimes in America.       
CRUZ: Here is the simple and undeniable fact, the overwhelming majority of violent criminals are democrats.       
ZELENY: And he took the media to task by reporting the suspect in the Colorado Planned Parenthood shooting, reportedly said no more baby parts as he was  arrested.       
CRUZ: It's also reported that he was registered as an independent and a as a woman and as a transgender leftist activist.       
ZELENY: Aid said, Cruz was trying to make a point against rushing to judgment, but sorting out fact from fiction has become a full time task in this  presidential race.     Trump is still standing by his assertion that he you saw thousands of  Muslims celebrating in New Jersey on 9/11, even though no one has produced a  video evidence to support that claim.    On CNN's New Day, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani said small pockets of  cheering took place in the city, but he accused Trump of exaggerating his  claims.       
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER NEW YORK CITY MAYOR: Let him deal with it. Let him show to many people. Let him show the evidence of it. If it shows up, it will  corroborate him. If it doesn't show up, it's going to make him look really bad.       
ZELENY: But so far, nothing Donald Trump has said has slowed his rise or diminished him in the eyes of his supporters. Now he's stepping up his  campaigning. He's been in Georgia, New Hampshire, heading to Virginia, North  Carolina, even Iowa this week.    A new aggressive phase as voters are only two months away from starting off this  long 2016 presidential campaign.    Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Waterville Valley, New Hampshire.   
CHURCH: And this, some tough love advice for Donald Trump from the former Governor of Michigan. She says he could make America great again by dropping out  of the race and you can find her column on CNN.com. Check it out.    An internationally renowned magazine has given an award to British singer and  novelist Morrissey that he probably doesn't want. The Literary review presented  Morrissey in absentia, it's bad sex in fiction award for his debut novel, "List  of the Lust."    Yes, you heard it right. It is supposed to draw attention to poorly written sex  scenes in what the magazine considers otherwise good books. The part reviewers  had problems with says two characters, and I'm quoting here, "Rolled together  into the one giggling snowball of full-figured copulation," end of quote.    And there is much more, but you'll have to read it yourself. I'm not going  there.    We'll take a break here while the angry rhetoric escalates. The U.S. President  urges Turkey and Russia to redirect their focus. The details, still to come.    Plus, rumors are swirling after the new mayor of Alaska's capital was found dead  in his home. We will explain why the death is such a mystery.       
CHURCH: And a warm welcome back to our viewers here in the United States and all around the world. This is CNN Newsroom. And I'm Rosemary Church.    I want to check the main headlines for you right now. The British parliament  will start debate in just a few hours on whether to expand U.K. air strikes on  ISIS into Syria. Prime Minister David Cameron supports the move. But thousands  of protesters marching outside parliament voice their opposition. A vote is  expected Wednesday night.    Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi says there's no need for foreign troops in  his country. And any military operation must be coordinated with his government.  That comes after the U.S. announced plans to send more Special Operations Forces  to fight ISIS in Iraq.    Myanmar's opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi has met with the country's current  president to discuss the transfer of power. This is the first time they have  seen each other since her party overwhelmingly one last month selection, though  she is the party leader, Myanmar's Constitution barred Suu Khi from being  president.    Well, the Russian pilot who was killed when Turkey downed his jet is being  buried in his hometown of Lipetsk. Oleg Peshkov was killed after Turkey shot  down the war plane near the Syrian border.    Turkey insisted Russia was violating its air space. But Russia argued it stayed  over Syria. Relations between the two countries have deteriorated with Russia  imposing sanctions on Turkey in retaliation.    Now, before he left the climate change summit, U.S. President Obama urge both  sides to reduce tensions and return the focus to battling ISIS. But they don't  appear to be reaching any common ground at this point.    We are covering this from all angles with Ian Lee in Istanbul. But we want to  begin with our Matthew Chance in Moscow. So, Matthew, President Putin wants an  apology from Turkey, but that's apparently not forthcoming.    And now Mr. Putin says he has evidence that Turkey was protecting black market  oil that it gets from ISIS. Where do things stand on this and what's the likely  next move?   
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, yes. I mean, that's an allegation that's been received in a particularly sensitive way in  Turkey. The idea that this Russian warplane was shot down, because the Turks  were trying to protect the very lucrative illegal trade in oil from ISIS to  profiteers inside Turkey.    Even members, the Russian say, of President Erdogan's own family are involved in  that train -- trade. It's an allegation, of course, which President Erdogan has  strenuously denied. He's even said that, you know, look, I mean, if there's any  evidence of this, I will, you know, I will resign from my job.    But it's not something the Russians have backed down on. And it's just one of  the allegations and one of the insults, really, that Moscow is hurling at Ankara  in the aftermath of this -- of this shoot down, which the Russians are extremely  angry about.    Remember, they lost two people, the pilot who is being buried today, as you  mentioned in Lipetsk, and another Russian soldier on the ground, as well, he was  involved in the rescue attempt. And so, it's something that's been a very  painful episode in Syria and in relations between Turkey and Russia.   
CHURCH: And talk to us about this evidence that Russia has apparently. Are we likely to see that in the days ahead?   
CHANCE: I'm not sure whether we will. I mean, certainly, you know, the Russians say that they've received information in that regard, that this is all about the  trade in oil between ISIS and Turkish business people.    And what they've been showing us over the past several weeks is Russian attempts  to target ISIS oil facilities. It's no secret that ISIS makes a great deal of  its money from the production of oil and the sale of oil. And we've seen lots of  videos provided to us by the Russian Defense Ministry, of Russian war planes  striking convoys of oil tankers, striking other oil installations, as well.     In an attempt to degrade that oil infrastructure that ISIS controls  inside Syria. There's also no secret that much of that oil passes through Turkey  as part of an illegal smuggling trade.    It's just this issue of the leadership of Turkey being involved in it, which is  controversial. And as far as that's concerned, we're not seeing any evidence so  far, and nor do I believe we're likely to.   
CHURCH: All right. Our Matthew Chance bringing us up-to-date on that situation, live from Moscow. So, let's get more now, more reaction from Turkey. And our Ian  Lee is there in Istanbul. And these are extraordinary accusations. And then at  metro bank you brought this to light more than 24 hours ago on CNN.    So, let's talk more about reaction because it is serious when you're talking  about the Turkish leadership perhaps involved, because we haven't seen this  evidence, these accusations coming from Russia. But what more is being said  about this on the Turkish border?   
IAN LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rosemary, this has angered the Turks greatly that they could be working with ISIS to smuggle oil outside of Syria. Turks have said  that this is an excuse by the Russians to bomb areas where the Russians are  saying this smuggling is taking place that Turks are saying in fact, it isn't  happening there.    But the Russians are using that to bomb -- excuse me, to bomb Turkamen. A group  of people that it's a very -- it's a very sensitive situation for the Turkish  government. They view them as their kin. These are people that live around the  same area where that plane was shot down.    And so, we heard from yesterday when Erdogan was speaking with President Obama  saying that hundreds of civilians have been killed in these bombings, and that  there is no evidence that their oil is moving through this area. And Erdogan has  said that show me the proof. That's what they want.    They say if there is proof that Turkey is buying oil from ISIS, then that he  will resign from the presidency. And still, yet, Russia hasn't been able to  provide that proof and Russia has said that there is a long line of vehicles  bringing -- or of oil terminal that is sending oil into Turkey.    And Turkey wants to see this proof, wants to know -- wants to see these  allegations, the evidence for these allegations and so far, as we heard from  Matthew, the Russians haven't been able to produce it.   
CHURCH: Yes. That is certainly the case and we are seeing a rise in tensions. They are very far away between Turkey and Russia from any fence mending efforts,  for sure. Ian Lee joining us there live from Istanbul in Turkey. Thanks to you.    Word just into CNN that NATO has formally invited Montenegro to join the  alliance. NATO's Secretary General made the alliance Wednesday. Montenegro  joined -- started on the path to join NATO in 2009. Russia, though, has objected  to any NATO expansion.    Well, it's now day three of the COP21 climate change conference in Paris. Most  of the heads of state have gone home. It's now up to thousands of  representatives to hash out the details and hammer out a resolution. Before  leaving, U.S. President Barack Obama said an agreement is important for the  world environment and global security.       
BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA PRESIDENT: If we let the world keep warming as fast as it is and sea levels rising as fast as they are, and weather  patterns keep shifting in more unexpected ways, then before long, we are going  to have to devote more and more and more of our economic and military resources  not to growing opportunity for our people, but to adapting to the various  consequences of a changing planet. This is an economic and security imperative  that we have to tackle now.       
CHURCH: And CNN's John Sutter is in Paris. He joins us now live. So, John, it is day three of the climate change summit. What is on the agenda and what is  expected out of discussions today?   
JOHN SUTTER, CNN DIGITAL COLUMNIST: So, as you mentioned, you know, world leaders, including Obama, have largely exited Paris and that sort of leaves the  negotiators here to really get down to business. So, they will basically be  working on a draft agreement that hopefully will be signed at the end of this  two-week process.    They'll be going through a few major sticking points. It's some obvious stuff  like money; some countries will have to fight about. The developing countries  really want money to deal with the consequences of climate change. We heard  President Obama listing some of those, rising sea levels, increased of drought,  so these are things that are hitting developing countries very hard and these  are countries that haven't caused the climate change that's happening.    And so, there's a question of financing on the table. There is also strangely  the idea of when they're going to review this process. So, we haven't even, you  know, finished an agreement here at COP21.     But, you know, one of the major sticking points is, you know, how  often these commitments from countries to reduce their pollution, how often that  will be reviewed and how often they have to sort of rachet up their ambitions.    That is really important because sort of underlying this whole process is the  idea of a 2-degree Celsius target for warming. If we cross that level, we're in  danger or catastrophic territory potentially. And so, the talks here, I don't  think anything is saying we'll fully get us to that goal of 2 degrees.    But some of that estimates I've seen are more like 2.7. But we're hoping that,  you know, this process will set in motion, you know, a framework that could get  the world to that goal over time.   
CHURCH: All right, 9.40 in the morning there in Paris. John Sutter joining us there with that live report. We appreciate it. Many thanks.    Well, the COP21 conference has drawn its fair share of protestors. The French  government cracked down on public demonstrations. But the anti- advertising  campaign called "Brandilism" found a way around that.    I want you to take a look. They posted more than 600 fake ads all around Paris.  The spokesman for that group says they are targeting corporate sponsors of the  summit like Air France and Volkswagen which the group thinks are part the of the  climate change problem. Some of the ads also feature heads of state.    Well, next here on CNN Newsroom, people in Alaska's capital react to the  mysterious death of their newly elected mayor. But first, Wednesday is  international day for the abolition of slavery.    For the past few weeks, CNN's Freedom project has been asking you to help fight  modern day slavery by joining its Fly to Freedom campaign. Many of you have  already made your pledges to fight slavery, and here are just a few of the  pledges we've received.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm Joining CNN's campaign to end modern day slavery. Now, I pledge...   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I pledge.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I pledge.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I pledge to look for and follow leads about slavery in my stories.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And I am happy to partner with CNN's Fly to Freedom campaign in an effort to adopt the freedom feel and to end forced labor.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I will ask my government representatives what are they doing to end slavery.   
ANDERSON COOPER, AC360 SHOW HOST: Share your videos and photos using the hash tag flytofreedom and be part of ending modern day slavery. Let's show the world  that it's time for slavery to stop.           
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Well, just weeks after taking office, the new Mayor of Juneau, Alaska, was found dead in his home. Police say Stephen Fisk was  found with injuries and many people now wonder if he was assaulted.    CNN's Randi Kaye reports on the mysterious death.   
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: About 3.30 in the afternoon, the 911 call came in. Mayor Stephen "Greg" Fisk of Juneau, Alaska, was dead.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: At about 3.34, we've received a 911 call from a man and there was someone who appeared to be deceased inside. KTUU officers were on  scene in about four minutes.   
KAYE: Mysterious deaths like this one, let alone the mayor, rarely occur in this remote capital city of 32,000. A community tucked away on Alaska's Panhandle.  Often reached by boat and seaplane. The strange circumstances have many in town  speculating about what happened.    The detectives here are, for now, stumped. The mayor's son had gone to check on  him Monday afternoon after getting word that others in town were having trouble  reaching him. After he looked inside the home where his father lived alone,  neighbors said the son could be heard shouting, that's when he called 911.    Officers rushed to the scene, butalready dead. Right now, there  than answers. Juneau police say they found no sign of forced entry  and they've also concluded that Mayor Fisk did not commit suicide. So what  happened?    Some are already suggesting that the mayor was assaulted. The police are playing  that down, though the chief did tell the Juneau Empire newspaper that assault is  one of the possibilities out there. But that it also could have been a fall or  something else.    Meanwhile, Juneau's deputy mayor will take over his duties. She was a longtime  friend of Greg Fisk, even taught his son when he was in the sixth grade.   
MARY BECKER, JUNEAU DEPUTY MAYOR: My husband and I were devastated. He was a wonderful person and a friend and from the calls I've been receiving tonight,  I'm not the only one who has felt that he was a wonderful person and a good  friend to Juneau.   
KAYE: A neighbor told us Fisk was active and in good shape. He hiked and swam often. She said he had a great smile and was a great guy. Greg Fisk was elected  Mayor just about two months ago. He won with 66 percent of the vote over the  incumbent mayor after running a very positive campaign.    He was looking forward to diversifying Juneau's economy and improving the  housing market and fixing a tight budget. But all of that is on hold as mystery  now hangs over this town.   
BECKER: It's just so devastating to have this happen. It's basically unbelievable.    Randi Kaye, CNN, New York.   
CHURCH: An iconic holiday television show draws rave reviews from a top republican. We will have the story after the short break.       
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST: A couple days peeled back on your advent calendar. Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri here for weather watch, watching weather  across the Americas.    If you take a look here on December 2nd, as the storm system that has really  been a pesky one the last couple of days finally scoots out of here's crossing  the Eastern seaboard. Some rainfall expected out of this and some residuals snow  showers left in the forecast across parts of the well to the upper portion of  the Midwest there.    But notice minimal snow relations over the next couple of days. The spotty  regions get up towards Northern New England, higher elevations supports some of  that to accumulate. But once the cold air departs, it does not look like it  comes back at least what is considered to be cold for this time of year at all  over the next couple of weeks.    The climate prediction center gives it a very high probability of a pretty  active el Nino pattern, what you typically would expect with mild weather. The  highest probability across the great lakes, of course relative to what is  expected for this time of year.    While to the south, 50 percent probability, the warmth continues into this very,  very historic year when it comes to warmth in general, globally speaking. But  here is the perspective. Chicago, how about snow showers in the morning; it  should make it up to three.    So, certainly nothing is taking around. Atlanta, some morning rain showers,  temperatures shooting up to about 14 degrees for a high there. Guatemala City  will keep it dry over this region. Managua also mostly sunny skies, temperatures  should be into the upper 20s and about 30 degrees. Some isolated thunderstorms  possible over this region, as well.   
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Well, this week marks the 50th anniversary of a Charlie Brown Christmas. The animated television special featuring the Peanuts  Gang first aired in 1965.    And late night comedian Jimmy Kimmel marked the moment by counting the many,  many times a certain presidential candidate used the "p" word. (BEGIN VIDEO  CLIP)   
TRUMP: What are you talking about is a lot. But it's peanuts for me.   The cost of the war is peanuts. We're talking about peanuts. That's going to be  peanuts.    Peanuts.    Peanuts.    That's peanuts. That's peanuts.    Peanuts. There's peanuts, peanuts. Peanuts. Peanuts. Peanuts. Glorified billion  is peanuts. It's peanuts.       
CHURCH: Does use it a lot, doesn't he? All right. I want to change gears now and go to the Southern Indian City of Chennai where over 300 millimeters of rain  fell in less than 18 hours on Tuesday. The airport was closed for several hours  because the runways were flooded.    So, let's go to our meteorologist Pedram Javaheri who joins us from the  International Weather Center with more on this. And of course, Pedram, these are  deadly floods and there is more of this to come.   
JAVAHERI: More of it to come the last couple of days. Absolutely, Rosemary. You know, anywhere you slice it, if you look at the amount of rainfall that fell  over this region on Tuesday alone really equate to what occurs in London in over  six months' time. Now, if you go past for the last 40 or so days, over this  region of Southern India, and I share with you some of the images as far as the  airport. And we said the runways there literally taking on water.    This is a city with the metropolitan of almost 9 million people. So, we're  talking about a population that would put it the third largest metropolitan city  in the United States if this was in the U.S., the size of the City of Chicago.  So, I tell you what a large metropolitan we're talking about when it comes to  the flooding that took place over that region.    But the concern, of course, is the amount of rainfall that fell in this region  in a short time period, in the past 40 days, it has rained 39 of those days.  That amount of rainfall that we accumulate over this region would take Los  Angeles the last five years to accumulate what these guys have seen in about  four weeks times.     So, here's what happened just on the first of December. Look at this,  350 millimeters or about a foot of rainfall doubling a month of December's  average already on the first day of the month. So, in other way here, when it  comes to where it has occurred because if we talk about India and of course, the  dry season typically, that's the beginning portion of the year with the Indian  dry season.    That begins the monsoon is still not in place yet. You bring in the October and  November. Now you're talking about the monsoon season in full swing across this  portion of India. About 350 millimeters of rainfall have come down in the month  of November, usually the wettest month of the year.    Look what happened this past November, the rainfall amounts staggering shots  through the roof here with almost 1200 millimeters, or four times of what is  considered normal just from those several weeks of rainfall. That's what led to  this 100-year flooding. A few areas of the some of the heaviest rainfall we've  seen since really the early 1900's over this region.    Storm system still in place, the forecast continues to bring in rainfall the  next couple of days. Then again, it is the monsoon season over this part of the  world. But you typically do not see something as much as we've seen in recent  days.    You notice the beginning of December the monsoon withdraws towards this region  of India. And that is precisely what's happening right now over this region. But  unfortunately, the forecast continues. So, it will bring down rainfall towards  this region of Southern India.   
CHURCH: All right. Pedram Javaheri, many thanks to you for bringing us up-to-date on the situation there in India.    And thank you for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. Early start is coming up  for our viewers in the United States and for everyone else. Max Foster is up  next with another edition of CNN Newsroom. You have a great day.       
