    
HIGHLIGHT: The shooting in San Bernardino, California killed 14 and injured 21 people. There is a vigil held tonight at the auditorium in San Bernardino to  remember those who lost their lives and those who tried to save them. Syed  Farook, a 28-year old employee was the suspect in the mass killings and  investigators say that he may have been radicalized and that he had  communications with some possible international terrorists. The names of the 14  people killed in the shooting were now revealed.             
MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA POLICE: And so, in there and, you know, people don't call the police because they're having a great day, they call  because there is tragedy going on. And this was tragedy that I've never  experienced in my career. And that I don't think most officers do. And so we had  to deal with it and we had to help bring them to safety and try to bring some  kind of calm to the chaos that was going on.    So, you know, it just knowing, though, that yeah, we resolved that situation  quickly but there is so much tragedy that's left behind. There are so many  families as we go into the holiday seasons that are now going to have to deal  with the tragedy that was left behind by this senseless act of violence. That's  a little tough to deal with.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You talked about the panic that you saw in people's faces, how do you deal with that? Do you say to them? How do you calm them down when  you yourself are going through this chaotic situation?   
MADDEN: You know, you have to be clear in your orders. The initial 50 people did not want to come to us. They were fearful. And they were in the back hallway  area and that actually heightened my concern that -- and my fear that  potentially the suspects were in that hallway holding them hostage and waiting  for us to enter into the hallway. We had to tell them several times come to us,  come to us and ultimately, they did and once that first person took the motions  forward, it opened the flood gates and everybody wanted to come and get away  from that as quickly as possible.    So, you know, we can't panic in those situations. These people have already  dealt with enough. The last thing they need to see is their police officers  panicking.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Was it silent in there or did you hear screams? Can you tell us a little about this, what you're taking in?   
MADDEN: It was extremely loud. The Fire alarms were going off. There were people who were obviously injured. And obviously in great amounts of pain and that was  evident and the moans and the wails that we were hearing in the room. It was  very loud in the room. And we also had fire sprinklers going off inside the room  so that was adding to the chaos.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Were they immediately trying to offer information about the shooters or did you get a sense they didn't realize what had just happened?   
MADDEN: We were -- my primary goal was to find out how many and where they were. And I was asking individuals but again panic was obvious and apparent and so we  weren't getting a lot of further information in regards to that.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did you find the bomb, did you find bomb -- your team find the bomb?   
MADDEN: No, your team did not find any of the explosive devices those were found later.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was a holiday party where the decorations, food tables, chairs?   
MADDEN: That sums it up, yes, it was. It's a fairly large meeting room. I noticed upon entry that there is a Christmas tree in there. All of the tables  were decorated, you know, for a Christmas Party. And it just seemed so senseless  that, you know, here's people going into their holiday festivities and now we  were dealing with that.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you talk about the training that you have how did you stay calm going in there and think about it, do you feel the adrenaline going  through your system?   
MADDEN: Yeah, I'm sure I did. But you can't let your emotions over ride your judgment. And you need to do the job that we're supposed to do. You know, that's  just what we're trained to do.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You were the last day and a half seems like the drama from the victims and you yourself and other responding officers?   
MADDEN: You know, I have tried to make a point of those officers that I knew were some of the initial guys in with us, which there were many officers who did  an extraordinary job yesterday for our department and also for all of the  agencies who responded so quickly.    It was just, it was truly overwhelming to see all of the agencies that got here  and got here in a hurry to provide us assistance because just like I said, I was  sensing this was a true event and they had the same sense. And they got here and  nobody hesitated. People knew what their job was and their job was to try to  bring some calm to chaos. And so it's one of those things, you know, I've gone  around and tried to contact our officers. I've tried to assess how they are  doing, talk a little bit about it and, you know, in doing that maybe that's  helping me a little bit, as well. So, I think we'll all work through it  together 
. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And then, there a video showing some of theincredible courage from an officer helping the people at the scene, I'll take a bullet before you do, I'm sure of it.     Is that you? If not, who was that?   
MADDEN: No, I would like to think I was that cool, but no. Unfortunately, that wasn't me. I don't know that that officer has been officially identified as of  yet but I'm told he is one of Sheriff McMan's folks but again, I haven't had  that confirmed.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What was your reaction when you saw that?  
MADDEN: I'm sorry?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What was your reaction when you saw that video?  
MADDEN: I saw that everywhere yesterday. That was what was happening everywhere during this event.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you address the pride that you felt off with the men and women in the manner in which they acted on at that scene yesterday and can you  just address how you felt about those men and women that were under your  command?   
MADDEN: You know, we've taken a lot of hits lately. Some justified, much of it not justified, and it takes a toll. It takes a toll on all cops because it's  hard being labeled and hard being branded as, you know, being rogue or, you  know, and I guarantee you that no cop comes into this job with the mind set that  "Oh, great, now I have ultimate power to be corrupt and to violate people's  rights."    There are cops who go astray but overwhelmingly, the vast majority of officers  and when I say vast majority, I'm talking 99.5 percent of the officers go out  and they do the job to protect the public and yesterday just reminded me of  that. And it just solidified that again in my heart and in my mind set and for  that I'm thankful.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going take two more questions.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You were the officer you were on patrol that day, what have you heard from the residents? Obviously this is sinking in with the community.  What have they told you?   
MADDEN: You know, and not just myself but every officer who I'm encountering right now is getting the same kind of positive encouragement and support.  Because, again, I think this -- we can never underlie the tragedy that we felt  the city and so many families yesterday but there is support for law  enforcement.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How do you personally take away from this...?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:to realize the threat you're facing absolute level of sophistication that they had some level of training and this just to  follow up on top of that did they leave anything behind a manifesto or any note? 
MADDEN: It was pretty clear when we knew we had an active shooter and when we saw the severity and the amount of carnage upon our initial entry that this was,  that there -- this wasn't just a rogue individual, this was -- there was  something more. So as far as us finding any kind of manifesto, no, sir. I don't  have any information regards to that. OK? Thank you.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So real quickly, Mike made reference early on that this was hard to believe that this was happening in his town. Mike was raised in this  town. Went to high school in this town and spent the majority of his law  enforcement career in this town. So, it's genuine when he says that that he felt  that this was his town being attacked.    So with that, thank you for being here folks. We will be back in the morning for  another press conference and I believe somebody from the Sheriff's Department  might stand by to talk about the photos.       
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: Well if you're just joining us, it is shortly after
6:00 P.M. here in San Bernardino, California. A lot happening right now. A lot happening within the last few minutes in the stadium behind me, a candle light  vigil has just gotten underway honoring the victims of yesterday's shooting.    Just moments ago officials including California's governor Jerry Brown spoke to  reporters about the young couple with their six month old baby who built an  arsenal, built bombs and became mass murderers, mass killers, a dozen pipe bombs  found at their home. New photos obtained by CBS news of a bag of them, a  picture, as well of the bomb rigged to a toy car that the killers tried to  detonate but failed that the Inland Regional Center where they took those 14  lives.    Police moments ago releasing new photos of the scene of the shootout that  brought this nightmare to the end. We also heard for the first time from the  first responder to reach the scene at the conference room where it began.       
MADDEN: It was unspeakable. The carnage that we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and unfortunately already dead and the pure panic on the  face of those individuals that were still in need and needing to be safe. We  asked -- we got as many people out as quickly as we could. We had approximately  -- I estimated in talking with the other officers who are with me probably 50  people respond at passes and out the doors.     And then we went further into the building and that was a difficult  choice to have to make as well passing people that we knew were injured and in  need of assistance but our goal at that time had to be trying to locate the  shooters and deal with them before we could get further assistance and for those  people in need of medical attention. I was very glad to see that in a very short  period of time we had a number of other responders that came in and were able to  formulate tactical teams and continue on with the search.       
COOPER: There's a lot to discuss back with us as Bob Baer, Paul Cruickshank, Art Roderick is here with me, also, Evan Perez. Evan, you had sone reporting just  before this press conference began and since people are just joining us now over  the top of the hour, if you could just repeat the latest information that you  learned.   
EVAN PEREZ, CNN JUSTICE REPORTER: Anderson, indications that investigators have found that these two attackers were trying to cover up their tracks. They were  trying to make it difficult for law enforcement to figure out what they were  doing in the run up to this rampage. They found two smashed cell phones in a  garbage can and near one of the scenes, one of the three different crime scenes  that we have there in San Bernardino.    We know they also recovered a hard drive that showed signs of tampering. What's  important about this is that because authorities believe or investigators  believe that what these shooters were trying to do was to try to make sure they  -- investigators could not find their communications in recent days. At least in  the case of the cell phones, they were relatively new cell phones and so the big  clue here that could be recovered here would be who were they talking to? Who  were they communicating with in the days leading up before this mass shooting?    We also know that investigators have been talking to the family members of these  two shooters, the family has been corporative including the mother of Farook,  Mr. Farook. And we are told that those interviews are on going. The  investigators hope they can gleam more understanding of what is going or what  the state of mind that might explain what happened here. And we also know that  from the arsenal they found at the scene there, the home of the mother where  this couple apparently were living, investigators believe that everything they  found there indicated that there's something bigger being planned. They still  don't know what that is. They hope the electronics will provide clues for that  Anderson.   
COOPER: And Evan, what have you learned about potential links to terrorism, to any international groups, to radical Islamist? And what are the theories that  police are working on that you're hearing from your sources?   
PEREZ: Well, one of the things that they have noted was that there was some communications with people who were on the FBI radar, people who -- subjects who  are under investigation. Now, these were low level people. These were not high  level subjects of investigations. So, this is not something where they think  that they perhaps missed something. These people were clean, they had relatively  clean backgrounds. They are looking at some of their travel. There was travel to  Saudi Arabia that we know oft this immigrant family. So, there was travel to  Pakistan in the past.    Again, nothing yet is jumping out that indicates that this was -- that this  explains what happens here. They do believe indications are that these people  were radicalized but this may not fully explain what happened here. There may  still be some aspect of this that comes from some workplace beef that triggered  what happened here. Again, this may end up well being -- may well end up being a  hybrid situation where something happened at work and there was also  radicalization that helped drive what happened here, Anderson.   
COOPER: Evan, stick around with us. Again, and we're here also with Bob Bear, Paul Cruickshank, and Art Roderick. Art, in terms of these, the cell phones that  everyone's reporting on and also the hard drive, those could be crucial in sort  of picking out the trail?   
ART RODERICK, FORMER U.S. MARSHAL: Absolutely. I mean, what were they trying to destroy them for? Was on those hard drive -- what was on the hard drive, what  was on the cell phone? Now, it's going to take a little bit of time to  reconstruct the hard drive and what's on those cellphones. But I think that can  be done fairly quickly. Obviously, this is a high priority case.    They'll get that stuff back to the cyber lab in Quantico. They'll look at it,  pull the information off that's needed and disseminate it. But I think those are  -- it's a key bit of information that's been found, again, a couple days later.   
COOPER: Right. Paul Cruickshank, obviously, just in terms of trying to piece together the pieces of the puzzle, this could be a major development.   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: It could be a major development but even if they have the phones, they may not be able to retrieve all the  communications from these phones. I've been told by people in law enforcement  that that isn't necessarily the case with these encrypted communication apps  that you can't get into the information even if you have the phone itself.     So having the phones is one thing, getting the information that may  have been transmitted on them at some point in time is a different thing all  together.    But the fact that they've tampered with the hard drive as Evan was reporting had  appeared to, tried to of this sort of tamper with the phones as well suggest,  yeah. Maybe they're trying to protect somebody.    Maybe there is a wider group of people that they have connections with they're  trying to protect and that's always a concern.   
COOPER: Bob Baer, you know, it turns how hard about this during our break, the fact that this is a man and wife. They don't need to be communicating, you know,  over device or phones. I mean, they can just, you know, they're living with each  other, they can just be talking to each other day after day about the plans on  this and there could be no record of that.   
BOB BAER, FORMER CIA OFFICER: Well, Anderson, that's exactly what's disturbing about these phones. I mean, were they making calls on them to a wider network  you -- one would think and you know. And you'd probably cannot recovered the  stuff if you take the cell phone and you'd properly smash it, you cannot recover  theformat. And if they're burner phones, you certainly can't.    So, we may never know. But the only reason I'd be using this phones driving a  hard drive is that there are some sort of wider network, whether it's overseas  or in the United States, I can't tell you. But I find this particularly  disturbing if this report is true.    You know, and there's another thing we have to consider. And maybe they called  in a bomb maker. I mean, in Boston, there's still a dispute whether someone help  the two sections there. There'll goes pressure cookers because the wiring was  changed.    We still have not got that answer but there's lot of law enforcement officials  and wonder whether they didn't get some help and maybe these people did to which  should disturb the police in California.   
COOPER: Everyone, we're going to take a quick break. Coming up, the family of 100 people who lost their lives telling her story. As you know, in these  horrible situations, we try as much as possible to focus on those who lost their  lives and we think it's important that you learned their names and that you  learned their stories who these people were.    It's very late in the day and those mans were released very late in the day. So,  we haven't been able to do a lot of that tonight. But one family is here and  they want to tell you about the love one they have lost. We'll be right back.   
COOPER: This original taking place in the stadium behind me, there are 14 men and women whose lives were taken yesterday being honored.     There stories being told because nothing right now matter so much.  There's so many here. With me now is the family as one of the 14. Her name is  Benneta Betbadal    Her husband Arlen is here, her kids, Collin, Ethan, and Jolene, also, Ken  Paulson, a family friend. Thank you all for being with us and I'm so sorry for  your loss under these circumstances. Jolene, I know you wanted to talk about  your mom. What do you want people to know about your mom?   
JOLENE, MOTHER KILLED IN SHOOTING: Well, overall, she was like an amazing person like, she was so nice. Like, she always like supporting me in everything I did.  And, like, she was nice honestly to everyone and it's sad for mostly, all the  families really. But...   
COOPER: How are you holding up...  
JOLENE: Well, like, it's like she used to tell me like, that if like, I do go, I want you to like -- I want everybody like, stay strong. I don't want you guys  grieving or like crying. That's like, what I've taken into a place and like,  just going off that. And I have all my friends that are like, contacting me,  supporting me and so just...   
COOPER: And that helps?  
JOLENE: Yeah. So, yeah.  
COOPER: You've been a family friend for how long?   Male: For 25 years. Lifelong friend and godparent to the children.   
COOPER: What do you want people to know about Bennetta because she fled Iran to flee Islamic extremism after the revolution.   
KEN PAULSON, FAMILY FRIEND: That's right, she was an 18-year-old girl and fled -- Christian woman -- she fled because of the religious persecution against  Christians that was taking place. She came to the United States to start a new  life. Eventually moved to California where she met her husband Arlen, had their  three children that you see here.    She graduated from college, Cal Poly Pomona with a degree in chemistry. She was  hired by the San Bernardino county health department as an inspector. Worked  there for a number or years and myself and the family, we just find it sadly  ironic and horrible that a woman that came to the country under these  circumstances would find herself gunned down by religious extremists.   
COOPER: Someone who fled Islamic extremism.  
PAULSON: Only to lose their life all these years later in America at the hands of religious extremism.   
COOPER: Arlen, do you feel -- do you want to say anything about Bennetta?  
ARLEN, WIFE KILLED IN SHOOTING: Just a lovely with, beautiful mother, everything she touched bloomed. Doing what she did with the county. There is not one of  that person that will say anything negative about her, always.   
COOPER: She was making a presentation yesterday?  
ARLEN: Correct. Also she's a plant checker whereas anybody that needs to open a new restaurant, businesses, she went above and beyond even on her own time to  help these new clients to the county.   
COOPER: How did you two meet?  
ARLAN: Well, we have a -- as Syrians, Syrian which are Christian like Armenians, once a year we meet at the convention center where young people meet and adults  meet. And for three days, Friday, Saturday, Sundays, there's -- and Mondays,  actually. There is activity for the friends and the people. And back in 1995 I  met her through that, a friend and became good friends, best friends. And two  years later, asked her for marriage.   
COOPER: And what an incredible family you guys created together. ARLEN: Thank you very much.   
COOPER: Incredible.  
ARLEN: Thank you.  
COOPER: Is there anything else you want people to know? Is your school, your friends, everybody must be really gathering around you now?   
JOLENE: They are all shocked. Because all of them were like, sending me tweets like, their condolences and like, asking me like, how I'm like, holding up. And  I'm just tell them I'm doing good, I'm doing OK. What else can I do? I have to  stay strong.   
COOPER: Yeah, I know you set up a go fund me page. And we're going to put that if we haven't already put the link up on the screen. We're going to put that up  on our web site. It's a memorial in honor of Bennetta.   
PAULSON: That's right, we very much appreciate that. All the funds that are collected through that will be 100 percent used to support the children and  their college futures and life without their mother.   
COPPER: Again, just so sorry for your loss. And I just wish you nothing but strength and peace in the days ahead. Thank you so much.   
PAULSON: Thank you.  
JOLENE: Thank you.  
COOPER: We're going to be right back. There's a lot more new information to tell you about. And what we're learning more about others who have lost their lives  here. We'll be right back.   
COOPER: For all we're learning about how the nightmare here unfolded, the question of the motivation remains an open one. Investigators will not say one  way or the other what they believe identifying it, figuring out what turned a  couple into killers has already taken investigators into very different  directions, global and search many wider terror ties and local where those who  knew them are speaking out. We have more on that aspect now from CNN's Kyung  Lah.       
KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Just minutes before the killers opened fire on the holiday party, Patrick Baccari left to use the bathroom when the attack started.   
PATRICK BACCARI, WORKED WITH THE SHOOTER: I thought somebody move in trapped the towel dispenser because I was being pummeled while pulling the towels out of the  dispenser. So I looked back in the mirror. I could see I was bleeding in my  temple, my nose. LAH: Baccari hid in the bathroom while Syed Rizwan Farook and  his wife fired off 76 rounds killing 14 people. Farook and Baccari shared a  cubicle for three years at the San Bernardino County Health Department. They  talked about cars, Farook 6 month old daughter, regular chat between two  co-workers.   
LAH: And why do you think he did this?  
BACCARI: Well I think his beliefs were contrary to our American dreams. He thinks that somebody is working to the capacity and educated to the level that  you are as similar respect and values.   
LAH: Law enforcers sources tell CNN that Farook apparently was radicalized and in touch with people being investigated by the FBI talking by phone and on  social media with more than one person being investigated for terrorism but a  law enforcers sources those talks were infrequent, the last one and then a few  months ago not raising any alarms.     No red flags either say U.S. and Saudi government officials when  Farook went to Saudi Arabia. The FBI says the 28-year old had also traveled to  Pakistan.    The couple's landlord who rented the apartment they would later fill with  weapons and bomb making materials saw no sign this was coming.   
DOYLE MILLER, SHOOTER LANDLORD: It's beyond my comprehension and because it seems like such a gentle, mild person. I think you can't tell a book but its  cover.   
LAH: Farook's brother-in-law didn't know.  
FARHAN KHAN, SYED FAROOK'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: I have no idea why would he do that, why would he do something like this? I have absolutely no idea. I am in shock  myself.   
LAH: A sentiment echoed by Patrick Baccari.  
BACCARI: Who wants to call their 16-year-old kid that their kind of you just survived that attack? Isn't many people that didn't that we love so.   
LAH: Baccari says the multiple bullet fragments in his body will stay, too risky to remove and remains, but also remains confusion. The man he so closely knew  did this turning to anger and fear.   
BACCARI: I believe every citizen here should be armed to defend themselves in the case of this happening. But that's not everybody else's still belief. I  couldn't have defended anybody from the position I was in even if I was armed  but at least if they tried to come in and get us in the restroom, I would have  had someway of maybe protecting the rest of us.       
COOPER: And, Kyung Lah joins us now. This incredibly interview to hear. I mean to imagine to have been sitting next to this person through for so long and to  have no idea and they have a 6 month old child this couple.   
LAH: In that's really what is perplexing, this is one of the Offices where you check in the morning and spend about 30 minutes together and you might chat  about what field operation you grew up that day and their going to check out  restaurant rating they check pools and making sure the public are safe. But  every single morning he talked to him. And then we talk about cars and had  enough of a friendship that the office threw a baby shower forum in if this is  what's really perplexing is, you have a newborn and you do this.   
COOPER: Kyung, I appreciate the reporting. Thank you. A very incredible interview helping us now to fit the pieces into as clear a picture as he can,  we're joined by former FBI Criminal Profiler Mary Ellen O'Toole. Also joining us  is Hedieh Mirahmadi, she's Executive Director of the World Organization for  Resource Development and Education. She works to raise awareness about Islamic  Hotel Radicalization of Muslims with us as well is CNN Military Analyst  Lieutenant Colonel, Rick Francona who joins me here.    Mary Ellen that what we do, I mean shooters male and female, is this type of  violent act unusual than it was perpetrated by a married couple and we talked  people have said there may be a workplace violence component to this. It's very  rare in workplace violence you have two individuals involved, right?   
MARY ELLEN O'TOOLE, FORMER FBI CRIMINAL PROFILER: It is and the fact that you have a female involved in this crime makes it even that more unusual. But it's  not just the act itself, it's the behavior that's contained within the act and  what you have here in this crime scene is you have very callous behavior. You  have behavior that's cold- blooded. Its behavior that is predatory and behavior  that's sadistic.    Those are very unique components to a crime scene very unique types of violence.  Those are almost always associated with males, never with females. So this  really sets this case apart. Because when you think of that crime scene people  had to be crying and they were yelling and they were pleading for their life.  And these two individuals continued with what they were doing and at this point  in the absence of some new information they were cool, calm and collected.    And again, that's the type of behavior we see consistent with people that have  traits of psychopathy and that's more consistent with male. So this really  unusual that a female would fit into that framework.   
COOPER: Hedieh, I mean the authorities are now saying that male shooter may have been radicalized and he may have been in touch with people being investigated  with ties the international terrorism. Does that surprise you?   
HEDIEH MIRAHMADI, COUNTERTERRORISM EXPERT: Well unfortunately, it doesn't. Unfortunately, these things seem to be popping up quite a bit. Director Comey  said there is over 900 open investigations of ISIS supporters and, so I think  I'm afraid to say that were going to be seeing a little bit more of this. 
COOPER: How bigger of a problem there, do you think is self- radicalization in the United States? Because even if these people didn't have direct ties to an  Islamist group overseas, you know, anybody today can get stuff off the internet  and radicalize themselves.   
MIRAHMADI: And I mean, in that's really the real problem is that the world has come to individuals in their living room.     And so, even if it's 300, 400, 500, that's enough that's enough it a  low volume high impact threat I mean that high impact threat that could tear  apart the fabric of our country by polarizing communities and making people fear  Muslims and not embracing Muslims as part of the solution. We need to work  together the communities need to come together to get ahead of this. We need to  start preventing terrorism and preventing radicalization instead of responding  to it.   
COOPER: Colonel Francona, in this family had a 6 month old child handed off to the mother saying they were going to a I think it was a doctors appointment and  then they went in and committed mass, mass killings.   
RICK FRANCONA, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: This is the part of many of the analysts can't get our heads around because this is its no pattern whatsoever. You know  as she was saying, this is totally out of the, what we see in these instances.  To leave a 6 month old child behind knowing that you're probably going to die in  this operation and -- what this tells me is that the first operation may have  been just that, the first operation come back, to do a second operation, but I  don't think they had any intent of going back for that child. Unheard of.   
COOPER: Hedieh, I mean you talked about, you know, getting ahead of this. How do you do that? How do you get ahead of people that may not be on the radar who and  self-radicalizing or maybe prone to it?   
MIRAHMADI: Well for example, Montgomery County we have developed a collaboration between the community, and I mean all of community as the G.W. study on this  center for extremities and reported over 40 percent of the cases are converts.  So that means they grew up in a home that did not practice Islam. So you need  the whole of community to gather with law enforcement building awareness about  radicalization and then being able to intervene before an act of violence. It's  really, really important that we start working together.   
COOPER: Is there something about a new convert that is more prone to this? I mean we've seen this not just with radical Islamism in which I think if memory  serves me, you know, there had been other shootings of world leaders by people  who have in overseas who have been for a recent converts to other religions are  over the years. I mean is there something about being recent convert that makes  a difference?   
MIRAHMADI: Well, I mean I think there's been a number of studies about the zeal in which somebody comes into a new faith and that may not be relevant in this  particular case but of course, that is an issue in a lot of cases and I think in  the ISIS recruitment patterns, they are looking for vulnerable individuals.    And so, whether it's the risk factors their suffering from alienation or  harassment or other kind of psychological disturbances, then they offer them a  path that involves some form of religiosity and people gravitate to that for a  sense of belonging for asocial network.   
COOPER: Mary Ellen, I mean you talked about instead of how unusual this is if there was place of active work, workplace violence, how does it fit into the  model of, you know, religiously motivated terrorist act?   
O'TOOLE: Well, it both features of this crime could fit together but the one thing that's really compelling is just the enormous amount of planning and  effort and that went into the crime. The excessive firepower, the very defined  escape route. So now backtrack on that and look at an incident that people are  talking about in which the male offender appears to have been, gotten angry or  something happened. He gets up and leaves and then the shooting occurs about 30  minutes later.    It makes no sense that that was the precipitator. There is way too much  planning. In that planning is done for a reason to have control over the event  and the most important thing to control is the venue. So in my experience and  with my understanding of behavior, this was a specific choice in a venue and the  planning went to be able to control what happened inside that room.   
COOPER: Mary Ellen O'toole and Colonel Francona, I appreciated Hedieh Mirahmadi. Thank you so much for that for being with us still ahead the vigil in the  stadium behind me. We'll going to bring you a live look inside this hundreds  have gathered to pay respects to those who lost their lives and also the rest to  save lives. An exclusive interview with a doctor who was on the front lines  treating the wounded as they arrived at the E.R.       
COOPER: Well, want to tell you where we are. We're at a stadium here in San Bernardino where inside hundreds of people have gather to pay their respect to  those who lost their lives and those who were wounded in yesterday's attack. The  event is underway. We're going to bring you inside momentary.    We are learning more about the incredible medical response to the shooting here  in San Bernardino while we were reporting on the manhunt yesterday, following it  in realtime with live coverage and other drama was playing out away from the  cameras in hospital trauma base across the city.    As, we said 14 people were killed. 21 were wounded in the shooting. The injured  were triaged on site and rushed to nearby hospitals. Six patients were taken to  Arrowhead Regional Medical Center. This photo shows teams at the hospital  waiting for the injured to arrive, bracing for the worst. Huge numbers of people  on hand. Chief Medical Correspond, Dr. Sanjay Gupta to talk to some of the team  about what they faced. Here is the exclusive report.       
SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: You're looking inside one of the emergency rooms were patients were brought after the mass shooting that rocked  Southern California.   
DEV GNANADEV, CHIEF SURGERY, ARROWHEAD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER: We have already ten operating rooms ready to go and radiology was ready. Everyone was ready.   
GUPTA: So here is where things took place. We're in the emergency room, the Arrowhead Medical Center. Here is where the calls came in. In about 30 minutes  before patients start to arrived. Behind the doors are trauma bays. Take a look  at what it looks like now and compare it to what it looked like yesterday. For  every patient brought in, there were four or five doctors prepared to treat the  wounded.    If you're looking at one of these bays, what does it look like as you're waiting  for patients to come in?   
KONA SENG, ARROWHEAD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER: Essentially, we had a senior E.R. Resident at the head with an attending anesthesiologist. We had an attending  trauma surgeon at the foot running the show. And we had a junior E.R. resident  doing primary survey, disrobing patients and checking for injuries.   
GUPTA: Dr. Kona Seng was the E.R. doctor in charge.   How much information do you have before the patients actually come through the  doors?   
SENG: Very little to be honest. Essentially I was given reports of patient injuries as far as location, where they were shot and mental status. That was  basically all we had as they hit our doors. We had sort to prepare for a larger  influx of patients. We normally would, so things that you wouldn't normally  think of, calling the blood bank for blood, getting enough blankets, getting  enough I.V. fluids sorts of things.   
GUPTA: Dr. Dev Gnanadev is the Chief Surgery, who along with Dr. Seng spoke exclusively to CNN describing how they had to manage the worst mass shooting  these doctors have seen.       
GNANADEV: We made a decision to send one patient straight to the operating room, two patient to the C.T. Scan and one had to wait.   
GUPTA: And it's the waiting, the not knowing that's the toughest part for any medical team.    What isn't do you worry about the most in these types of situations 
? GNANADEV:That your resources get stressed so much that you might not be able to provide care to all the people who come and you have to decide who goes first, who goes  second, who goes third? And sometimes you have to decide who is, whose care is  fragile, so don't waste a lot of time and resources. And that will be the most  difficult thing you can decide in mass casualties.   
GUPTA: That's something you probably think about over and over again.  
GNANADEV: Absolutely because in my mind, God should be the one that decides that rather than you.   
GUPTA: Whoever made the decision, all six patients treated here are expected to survive and do well.       
COOPER: Incredible medical response, Sanjay Gupta good to joins us here now. Are there particular injuries that they have to try to prepare for in something like  this?   
GUPTA: They do a lot of training, a lot of drills and they train for these types of scenarios. But, you know, what is different here is the types of weapons  being used, when you think about handguns, you think about certain size bullets  and velocity with this, everybody talking about assault rifles, that the  velocity of the bullets here, about three times faster than a handgun.   
COOPER: Really?  
GUPTA: Yeah, so it's really a completely different type of injury. It causes a cavity sort within the body and that's a blast that occurs that can affect  organs far away from the actual entry site. So it's remarkable. These patients  in the hospital, things may look good, part of the reason they'll going to stay  in the hospital for several days is they have to be monitored to make sure some  other organ still away from the injury, wasn't affected.   
COOPER: It was incredible to see, Sanjay. Thank you so much.  
GUPTA: Yeah.  
COOPER: I'm glad you're here.   Up next, we have more breaking news, new intelligent tonight about where ISIS  could be planning to strike next and the follow up attack to the Paris carnage,  plus an update on the search for the Paris attacker, the eighth terrorists who  got away. Details ahead.       
COOPER: There's more breaking news tonight about the search for the eighth Paris attacker, Salah Abdeslam, he is the one who was last seen in Belgium as you know  ever since Paris Erupted in gunfire and explosion. He is been the focus of an  intensive Manhunt across the Europe.    There is also new intelligence tonight indications that ISIS plans to carry out  as the next attack in the United Kingdom. A follow up to the Paris attack,  killed a 130 people.    CNN Terrorism Analyst, Paul Cruickshank joins me now with the latest. So what is  this intelligence about ISIS targeting the U.K.?   
CRUICKSHANK: Well, Anderson, this comes from a senior European Counter terrorism Official. And intelligence which is being obtained by European Security Agencies  indicates that ISIS is aiming to hit United Kingdom next. And the British ISIS  in Syria and Iraq are being task with returning home in U.K. to launch this  attack.    And all of this coming a day after that vote in the House of Commons, yesterday,  authorizing British air strikes in Syria, that has compounded concerns about  this potential plotting from ISIS. And all this coming a month after a British  ISIS operative linked to Jihadi John was arrested in Istanbul in Turkish  official telling CNN, he was on the way back to Europe with attack order, attack  marching orders from ISIS.    So, there's significant concern now about the threat to the U.K. with over 700  British extremists having gone to Syria and Iraq to fight and half that number  coming back.   
COOPER: Any idea of a timeline, how imminent these may be or specific locations?  
CRUICKSHANK: There is -- not a sense of clarity on the degree to which this is imminent or the location in the United Kingdom. But clearly a lot of concern  about this threat stream tonight, Anderson.   
COOPER: I also want to ask you about the Manhunt for Salah Abdeslam, you got new information on that?   
CRUICKSHANK: Yeah. A senior European commentaries in official saying that the trail for Salah Abdeslam, the eighth attacker in Paris went cold the day after  to the attacks, the Saturday after the attacks. The last known location they  have for him is a district of Brussels. Just no information about his where  about since then, they're also telling me, they now believe that he chickened  out from becoming a suicide bomber the night of the attacks and called friends  in Brussels in a very panicked state wanting to be given a lift back to  Brussels.    And the European Intelligence Services think that he might be persona non grata  with ISIS because he didn't follow though with a suicide bombing. So even if he  was at some point able to get back to Syria. They didn't think he might  necessary be welcome, Anderson.   
COOPER: Interesting, Paul. I appreciate the update. Thank you. Just ahead we have more from here, some of the most important information that we've learned  today the names of the 14 people whose lives were cut short in that conference  center. We remember them next.       
COOPER: Welcome back. We're standing right now in the broken heart of a community in mourning. And the stadium behind me a vigil is underway to remember  the victims lost in yesterday's attacks. Poppy Harlow is inside. Poppy, what's  going on?   
POPPY HARLOW, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know, the message her tonight really clear in the opening lines of the opening prayer here at the vigil, Anderson. Those  words "We are challenge but we are not hopeless" speaking about this entire  city, this entire community. I want to take you into the lives of some of the  people here. Christine behind, just told me three of her friends were shot  yesterday, two of them died, one of them shot in the head. They survived. She  told me she came here to find some sort of answer even though that's been pretty  difficult.    Sitting next to her, Gustavo told me he is here because he is angry. And he  doesn't know if there are any answers. He is looking for some. You heard the  most beautiful music song by an acapella choir here. You got thousands and  thousand of people with candles lit. And when I walked in the song that was  playing over and over was "May You Find Some Comfort Here" and I think that says  a lot because there are no answers at this point and time as to why or motive  but there is some comfort in this community tonight, Anderson.   
COOPER: Yeah. People want to be together. I saw a lot of kids going in with their parents as well.   
HARLOW: I think that struck me the most. I was just with the mother of five down here. She brought her four-year-old. And I said to her, her name is Angelina  , I said, how do you explain this to a four-year-old? And she said you can't  but I let him watch the news and let them see what is going on. They have a lot  of questions.    And she said we want to be together as a family. And then, she said, I take them  to church a lot. Because there's only so much you can protect them from in this  world and that helps us find faith and hope and comfort. She is one of hundreds  of parents who have brought their tiniest children here tonight. They can't  possible explain it but they want -- I think to see the best of their community  because they saw the worst play out yesterday, Anderson.   
COOPER: Yeah, Poppy, I'm glad you're there. Thank you. We talked a lot tonight about what investigators are learning about the shooters themselves but we never  want to lose sight of the most important people in what happened here, the 14  souls they killed being remembered tonight inside that that vigil.    We now know their names. I want to read you their names, so that you hear them.  Shannon Johnson. Benneta Betbadal, Aurora Godoy, Isaac Amanios, Larry Kaufman,  Harry Bowman, Yvette Velasco, Sierra Clayborn, Robert Adams, Nicholas  Thalasinos, Tin Nguyen, Juan Espinoza, Damien Meins, and Michael Wetzel. The  youngest who died who was 26 years old, the oldest was 60 years old.   
