    
HIGHLIGHT: Investigators find an ISIS connection in the shooting. The landlord invites the media into the killers' home.     
 JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: More of the breaking news coverage, the shooting at San Bernardino. Anderson Cooper picks up right now.   
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.  
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: And thanks very much for joining us. I'm Anderson Cooper, live in San Bernardino, California.    I want to welcome our viewers in the United States and watching around the world  to CNN's special coverage of the California shooting massacre.    Breaking news here on CNN. In just the past few minutes, we've learned that  investigators have drawn what they feel is a clear line connecting the mass  killing in southern California to ISIS.    I want to go straight to CNN's Jim Sciutto, tracking these new details from  Washington.    Jim, what's this connection?   
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Anderson, this is what we know. Multiple officials telling CNN that Tashfeen Malik, she's the wife and  the second shooter, of Syed Rizwan Farook, that during the attack, as the attack  was underway, she made a posting to Facebook pledging allegiance to the ISIS  leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. This in a Facebook account under a different name.  Investigators have not told us which device she used to make this posting.    This is leading investigators to further firm up the explanation that terrorism  was involved in this. To be clear, they are now looking at this as an  ISIS-inspired attack. They have not yet established that this was directed  necessarily by ISIS. One official telling my colleague, Pamela Brown, this is  looking more and more like a case of self-radicalization.    I also want to mention, because we've talked a lot about a workplace issue as  possibly being involved. Investigators still looking into the possibility that  another issue was a workplace issue centered around his religion, that that may  have played a role in this dispute. But to be clear, the news here is  establishing a direct connection to ISIS with the wife, Tashfeen Malik, posting,  making this Facebook posting, pledging allegiance to ISIS, to the leader, Abu  Bakr al-Baghdadi, as the attack was underway. I also want to make clear for  context that there is precedent for that. You may remember the Garland, Texas,  shooting in May of this year. The other ISIS-inspired attack we've seen so far  on U.S. soil. The shooters in that attack made a similar social media posting  prior to the attack. It is something that ISIS asks its followers to do, demands  of its followers as they are carrying out acts of violence.    But again, there, this is - this is something I'll tell you, Anderson, that U.S.  law enforcement official, counterterror officials have been warning me and  others for some time, their concern about ISIS being able to inspire an attack  on U.S. soil, that is of grave concern now because there is evidence that that's  exactly what happened in San Bernardino two days ago.    Anderson.   
COOPER: And, Jim, I mean, what's of greater concern to law enforcement, somebody who actually has contact to an ISIS or ISIS affiliate overseas, or somebody who  doesn't and is able to do this just by watching their videos and deciding to  kind of self-radicalize?   
SCIUTTO: They're both of equal concern, frankly, because they both have the intended effect, sadly, which is carrying out acts of bloodshed. In Paris we saw  a direct connection, some direction from ISIS home base. Here, not clear there  was direction, but at least inspiration. And I will tell you, Anderson, it's  arguably more difficult, more scary to have no connection, to have it be  completely self-inspired -   
COOPER: Right.  
SCIUTTO: Because there's no trail to detect before the attack, a communication, a call, a social media posting, an e-mail or a direct message from someone in  say Syria to someone here in the U.S. If they do it entirely on their own, then  much harder to prevent.   
COOPER: Yes.  
SCIUTTO: To be clear there, in this case though, we do know that while these attackers were not known to the FBI before these attacks, they have now  discovered after the fact that they were in communication with people known to  be ISIS sympathizers before the shooting took place.   
COOPER: All right, Jim, appreciate the late breaking details. Thank you.   I want to go to our panel. Paul Cruickshank is here, our terrorism analyst. Also  CNN contributor Michael Weiss, who co-wrote a book about ISIS. Also Anthony May,  a former AFT explosive expert.    Paul, let's start with you. When this latest information, that the wife had  pledged loyalty to al Baghdadi, it's clearly a direct link that leads this to  the terrorism angle. What do you make of it?   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: Yes, and it leads perhaps - you know, it arrives at the terrorist angle with that. That this is looking like an  ISIS-inspired terrorist attack, which would be the first deadly ISIS-inspired  attack on U.S. soil, and also the deadliest Islamist terrorist attack on U.S.  soil since 9/11. So this is a very significant moment, unfortunately. ISIS are  going to take ownership of this, I would believe, in a big way. They'll use it  to try and inspire other attacks. I think there will be concern now with over  900 investigations in the United States of ISIS-inspired radicals that some of  those with what they saw playing out in Paris, with what they saw play out in  California, will now be inspired to move forward.     These are worrying days the United States now faces because of this  ISIS threat. ISIS are instigating these kind of attacks over the social media,  reaching out to people directly in the west to encourage this form of violence.  It remains to be seen whether there was any communication between these two and  ISIS when it comes to that, but certainly this is now an ISIS-inspired attack.  Very worrying.   
COOPER: There's some sound that CBS has from a man who knew the couple. I just want to play that.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you believe that he was radicalized?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, by the wife. I think he married a terrorist.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He married a terrorist?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.      
COOPER: Michael, I mean is this a kind of a dream scenario for ISIS. A man and woman go on a killing spree, pledging their allegiance to ISIS -   
MICHAEL WEISS, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Yes.  
COOPER: Even if they don't have any direct connection to that group?  
WEISS: Absolutely. I mean, look, they've got two sort of arms of their foreign operations. One is to dispatch their agents and their sleepers and their  operatives from, you know, the caliphate into Europe or to have them just remain  in Europe and further radicalize people and plot the operations that you saw  such as in Paris.    The second arm is a kind of army of invisible soldiers. You know, the propaganda  or the abjectprop, as it should be know, is designed to do exactly this,  you know, have people essentially declare allegiance or pledge their loyalty to  the caliph, Abu Bakr al- Baghdadi, without even ISIS senior officials knowing,  and then go off and perpetrate these attacks. I mean these people don't matter  to ISIS. They're cannon fodder. They're expendable. And that's exactly the  point. Better we don't even know - hear from you. better we don't have  communications because we know that that can be interdicted by, you know,  signals intelligence. So this is - this is what I think is much more worrying to  counterterrorism officials. It's like, you know, we don't even know how many,  you know, of these people exist all throughout the world. You don't - you don't  find out about them until they carry out some dastardly deed.   
COOPER: And, Michael, the fear of that exactly plays into ISIS' hands, because what they want is to create divisions between the U.S. population, the  non-Muslim population, and the Muslim population in this country. I mean they  would like nothing more for there to be fear, for there to be distrust of the  mainstream Muslim population in the United States because that would further  create greater divisions and potentially greater resentment and potentially  newer recruits.   
WEISS: That's right. I mean in addition to killing as many people, inflicting as much harm as possible, there's a sort of - I wouldn't even call it a secondary  goal. I mean it's somewhat riding shotgun with the primary goal there, which is  what the KGB used to call reflexive control, putting out information, trying to  engineer the west response to your activities.    So, for instance, after this attack, I guarantee you, Anderson, you're going to  see an entire class of punditry, politicians talk about the threat posed by, you  know, fifth columnists and radical Muslims living in the United States. There  will be calls like Donald Trump's, you know, national registration cards for all  Muslim, things like that. That plays directly into ISIS' narrative because they,  as you point out, they - for Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi put it himself in his Ramadan  sermon in 2014, there are two camps. There is no third camp. There is no  third way. There's the camp of the true believers, Islam as we interpret it, and  then there's the kufar. So you're either with us or you're against us. And  they want the west to be against them and to declare that they're against them  in this clash of the civilizations.   
COOPERS: Anthony, in terms of the bombs, the explosives found in that garage, how much training and materiel is needed for something like that? I mean can  somebody do that? Can this couple have done this on their own? Would they need a  bombmaker or is it stuff they could figure out from reading stuff online?   
ANTHONY MAY, RETIRED ATF EXPLOSIVES EXPERT: Well, Anderson, the devices that I've seen just from the photographs seem kind of rudimentary and amateuristic in  design. And the photographs say a lot. But to kind of piggy backing on what  Michael just said, using his phrase of the army of the invisible soldiers, they  may be - they may think they're invisible, but the gist of the logistics of  massing the pipes, the materiel, the ammunition, they're leaving signatures.  People should be noticing these things and - and it's - and, you know, law  enforcement can't do this on their own. They're going to need the public's help  in this. And if they see something - see somebody amassing a large bag of pipe  such as this - I mean they're buying these things, they're leaving a trail. And  that needs to be reported. And I guarantee you law enforcement has no problems  looking into that.     But now back to the pipes, that bag of - a yellow bag full of pipes.  What that tells me is quite a bit. What I'm not seeing in that bag is what's  most important. I'm not seeing any built-up of those pipes. I'm not seeing any  drill holes. I'm not seeing any fusing mechanisms. That could be just a bag of  materiel that was presented to our shooters. And if that's the case, then  certainly there are logistical people involved here that are providing the  supplies that they're needing. That the device left at the - at the center,  where the shootings occurred, that yellow car sitting in front of the three pipe  bombs taped together, my - just looking at that and looking at the wiring from  it, and talking with some folks that I know, that - that device would not work  as designed. And I don't want to go into their design flaw because -   
COOPER: Sure. Of course.  
MAY: I don't want it to be corrected.  
COOPER: Paul Cruickshank -  
MAY: But, you know, there's a lot to be said here that they could not have done this on their own.   
COOPER: Yes. And it's an important note about people seeing something and saying something. Anthony May, thank you. Michael Weiss, Paul Cruickshank, stick  around. We're going to take a short break.    Up next, digging deeper into the apparent connection between the massacre here  and ISIS. What turned a husband and wife into killers and terrorists, and how  many others like them are there out there? We'll be right back.   
 COOPER: And welcome back.   I want to show you some pictures outside of the apartment complex where these  killers were living. A scrum of reporters outside. Not exactly clear what's  going on there right now. Our Stephanie Elam is on the scene. We're trying to  get some information from her and we'll let you know as soon as we can.    I also want to bring back Paul Cruickshank, our terrorism analyst. Also here  with me is Jim Bueermann, president of the Police Foundation. He also worked for  the Redlands Police Department for more than three decades, including serving as  chief of police. And also Michael Weiss is joining us.    Jim, just in terms of this late information now of pledging - this woman  pledging allegiance to ISIS apparently during the attack. We don't know exactly  what device she used to do this. From a law enforcement standpoint, it's almost  more difficult, as we were talking to Jim Sciutto about earlier, that you don't  have people who - who as far as we know at this point, are making international  connections to a terror group.   
JIM BUEERMANN, FORMER REDLANDS CHIEF OF POLICE: Right.  
COOPER: It's easier to track them if they do. If they're just self- radicalized or maybe have local contact.   
BUEERMANN: Right.  
COOPER: So as a law enforcement challenge, what needs to be done moving forward?  
BUEERMANN: Well, I think local policing has got to do several things. Not only get smarter about what we are now starting to see, but after this event, I would  hope that every police chief and sheriff in this country are trying to make  connections with the leadership of their local Muslim communities and saying,  we've got to work together, you know. And fundamental underpinning of community  based policing is this notion of coproduction. The police and the community work  together - working together to make the community safer.    The people within the Muslim communities in any of our towns are going to know  when somebody who's self-radicalizing and only connection might be within that  community, the police are not going to figure this out unless they make a  mistake or they do something to get up on the local police radar. The best bet I  think for any police department is to have that positive, very healthy  relationship between their community members to say, look, we can't do this  alone. We've got to work together and we're all pulling on the same end of the  rope. And that's not going to happen if we don't have those relationships.   
COOPER: And because - I mean the vast majority of Muslims in America are law abiding and cooperative.   
BUEERMANN: Absolutely. Absolutely.  
COOPER: And so they are really the front line of defense.  
BUEERMANN: Right.  
COOPER: And so it's critical that there not be a division between law enforcement and - and - and Muslim leadership.   
BUEERMANN: It is - it is fundamental that there has to be a sense of trust and confidence in the police from any of our communities, right, but specifically  this one because if people don't trust the police, they're not going to tell  them when they have a suspicion. They might - even if they don't trust the  police, they might pick up the phone and call 911 if they think there is an  attack imminent, but if they just have a suspicion and they don't like the  police, they don't trust them, they have no confidence in them, they're not  going to call them. And so this notion about police reform today and the trust  and confidence in the police is really also about the security of our homeland.  It's really about homeland security in its own way.   
COOPER: I have Paul Cruickshank, who's also joining us, our terrorism analyst.   I mean, Paul, we have seen this also internationally. I mean one of the things -  and we talked to Michael Weiss a little bit about this earlier, is that ISIS  wants is to draw division and create further divisions between mainstream  Muslims in Europe, in the United States and the rest of the populations in the  United States. They would like nothing more for there to be distrust and fear  and actions against Muslims, law abiding Muslims in this country, because that  would drive a wedge further. That serves ISIS' end, no?   
CRUICKSHANK: Well, that's exactly what they're trying to do. But, Anderson, they're going to find it a lot more difficult to do in the United States than  they're going to find it in Europe. I spoke about those 900 investigations in  the United States of ISIS-inspired radicals. While those numbers may sound big,  but they are much, much smaller than the numbers in Europe. To give you a point  of comparison, in France, they have opened surveillance investigation files into  more than 10,000 suspected Islamic extremists just in France. And then if you go  continent wide in Europe, you have a multiple of that.    The American Muslim community, the vast, vast, vast majority absolutely reject  anything close to this ISIS ideology. They are well integrated. They are playing  extremely productive roles in the United States. They are doing well  economically compared to Europe. There are a few pockets in Minneapolis and  elsewhere which resemble a little bit more the dynamics we've seen play out in  Europe.     But the threat is so much larger in Europe than the United States. So  many more European extremists have traveled to Syria and Iraq. Many of them  joining ISIS. Up to 6,000, compared to the United States, just a couple of  hundred or so, and perhaps dozens just joining ISIS. So the scale of the threat  lower by many degrees in the United States.    I think one of the big concerns is some of these European extremists recruited  by ISIS could come into the United States and you could see the bigger scale  terrorist attacks from that, Anderson.   
COOPER: I want to go to our Victor Blackwell, who is in Redlands.   Victor, explain what is going on there at the apartment?   
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anderson, the owner of this apartment, again this was rented, showed up with a crowbar and took the  board off of the front door. There are about 50 members of the international  media here inside the home. I'm going to give you a description of what we see.    Most interesting, in the living room area, there are three sheets from the U.S.  Department of Justice here listing all of the items that were seized from this  home. That's on a low table here. There are four sheets written in pencil here.  It's dated for 12/3/2015. On another table, there's a small copy of the Koran  and there is as well the owner here who is kind of pacing through.    I'll describe this home. It's a mixture of, you know, small carpets and rugs in  the living room. A quite typical kitchen here, although the window has been  broken out as the investigators came in. I see the front door, half of it here  as it was broken through.    I'm going to be heading upstairs now. Hopefully that doesn't play with the cell  phone signal. But, carpeted green steps up here. Again, what you are hear in the  back room - the back here are dozens of people who are here taking pictures.    I see my colleague Stephanie Elam upstairs who's following that angle, so I'll  stay here where she isn't. But there are two pairs of shoes here by the door.  Holes in the wall, which we see from, of course, from the effort to get in.  There is a small sign here that's made of cloth on the front wall with some  writing in Arabic. Not speaking or reading Arabic, I cannot tell you what that  says.    But there are also what you'd see in a home of anyone with small children.  There's a play area for their six-month-old daughter, who we know was taken - or  left, rather, with his mother. There's a treadmill in the front room and some  toys for this child. So a few elements that obviously show that the - the raid  that happened here. But some elements that also tell you about a family with a  young child and things one would expect to see.   
COOPER: Victor, stay there. I will - I do want to bring in Stephanie Elam, who I think is on the - the second floor.    Stephanie, if you are there, explain what you're seeing there.   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Anderson, I am on the second floor and I was the first with into this back bedroom upstairs. And when  we came in, there was just sort of disheveled in many ways because of the  ransacking that went on after the investigation here. But on the bed, most  notably, were a bunch of credit cards and I.D.s. But I believe they belong to  the mother of Farook that are on the bed based on the ages on the I.D.s that I  can see.    A lot of what you see up here is pretty normal, what you would expect to see in  a home. You know, the clocks, the dressers, going in the closet, looking at the  clothing that is here, all of this looking normal, except for the fact that you  can see that they ripped into the ceiling in the closet to make sure that they  were looking for any clues anywhere.    Lots of signs of that. I see one family picture that's put away in the back of a  closet here. But when I first came in, I could see it before everybody else,  since I was the first one into this room, and there's a lot of luggage packed  over to the side in the corner. A bed with - on a frame, but just sort of a not  - the normallike a bed frame or anything that you would normally  see - a headboard that you would normally see here.    But taking a look at what has been left, a lot of what you would see here are  like files down here at the bottom as well that have been left. So these are  things that look like they belong to the mother of Farook based on some of the  things that I'm seeing here. Just normal, everyday items and receipts from  and stuff like.   
COOPER: OK. Stephanie, do you know the -  
ELAM: But when you look at it overall, it looks normal.  
COOPER: Do you know - has the landlord opened up the garage or is law enforcement still - still out working in the garage?   
 ELAM: The last I heard is that they were looking at the garage, but I have not physically been out there since I came straight upstairs once the door  was broken into.   
COOPER: OK. All right, we'll -  
ELAM: But up here you can see - you can definitely see the signs of all that has been happening here because there is - what is that, the ceiling tiles, you can  see them all over the ground, broken up where they'd broken in to see if there  was anything hidden, it looks like, the investigators, that's what it looks like  here.   
COOPER: And also I just want to go back to Victor Blackwell, if we still have him, who's downstairs.    Victor, have any of the family of these two come by at all to claim any  property, or they're all - or have they not shown up?   
BLACKWELL: No, we've not seen any family members here. But, Anderson, I just picked up one of these sheets from the FBI on what has been seized. Let me read  for you the description of some of the things that were taken from this home.  We've got listed here three remote controlled cars. Of course we know there was  a remote control car in that bag that was inside the IRC and a remote in the  car. A solid brass torch, switches and tubes, three torches here, notebooks, a  thumb drive was taken, a gun cleaning kit, Rolodex, two wired Gateway notebooks,  a laptop, three letters addressed to Syed Farook, his birth certificate, his  I.D. card, some clothing here as well, a .22 caliber rifle, ammunition, a  Verizon sim card.    So a lot of intelligence obviously is going to be derived from some of the  electronics that have been here. There are four pages here, if you'd like me to,  I can pick up another page and kind of read - continuing what was taken here.  Fourteen boxes of .23 caliber bullets, 13 boxes of 50 rounds each of .22  caliber, audio cassettes, the micro sim card from a Toshiba, aerosol cans, bolts  here as well, a rifle scope, notebooks, nine bullets here, a scope of an air  rifle, and it goes on and on and on for four pages, the details of what was  taken from this home. So initially what we've got was kind of a vague overview  of lots of bullets, lots of tools, but we're seeing that there were lots of  electronics as well, and some specifics about what was taken from this home.    So it kind of builds out the picture of this being more than just a small  family's home despite the boxes of diapers here and the play space for the  six-month-old girl. Still a venerable stacktaryof bombs and weapons in  this home.   
COOPER: And, Victor, just standing by. I want to bring Jim Bueermann in, who's standing by with me as we continue to look at those images of the outside of the  apartment.    You know, Evan Perez last night was reporting that two smashed cell phones had  also been found. Also I believe a hard drive that had been tampered with.  Someone tried to destroy it as well. Those are all critical pieces that if they  can get information off of -   
BUEERMANN: Right.  
COOPER: Will be potentially huge for law enforcement to try to establish any kind of network of connections.   
BUEERMANN: Absolutely. I think that's one of the things that locally the police are most concerned about right now, are there other actors out there that were  working in concert. If so, is there some other attack sometime out in the future  that they can intervene in and prevent. So they're going to be really interested  in what they've got there. And this is very typical, the receipt that he's  talking about is very typical of these kinds of cases and the things that the  police would seize.   
COOPER: Right.   We're going to take a short break. We are going to continue to monitor  developments at the apartment. It will be particularly interested to see if the  garage is accessible. We'll find that out shortly. But we'll take a short break  and we'll be right back.   
