    
HIGHLIGHT: OUTFRONT tonight, the breaking news. Increasing evidence this evening that at least one of the San Bernardino shooters may have been radicalized. Law  enforcement officials telling CNN tonight that Syed Rizwan Farook who along with  his wife shot and killed 14 people at an office holiday party had travelled to  Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. We are also learning tonight that Farook was in touch  with people being investigated by the FBI for terrorism, communicating with them  by phone and via social media. Now, this comes as police say Farook and his wife  apparently were going to launch more attacks. Law enforcement officials telling  CNN tonight they believed Syed Rizwan Farook may have been radicalized and that  he was communicating with more than one terror suspects who was on the FBI  radar. Farook travelled to Saudi Arabia in 2013 or 2014, that is where he met  the woman who became his wife and the partner in the shootings. Breaking news,  police revealing tonight that the married killers amass an astonishing amount of  fire power. Thousands of rounds of ammunition, high-capacity magazines were  found in their home along with what authorities are calling a bomb lab.     
 ERIN BURNETT, CNN ANCHOR: Good evening. I'm Erin Burnett. OUTFRONT tonight, the breaking news. Increasing evidence this evening that at least one  of the San Bernardino shooters may have been radicalized. Law enforcement  officials telling CNN tonight that Syed Rizwan Farook who along with his wife  shot and killed 14 people at an office holiday party had travelled to Pakistan  and Saudi Arabia. We are also learning tonight that Farook was in touch with  people being investigated by the FBI for terrorism, communicating with them by  phone and via social media. Now, this comes as police say Farook and his wife  apparently were going to launch more attacks. They found at their home what  police are now calling a bomb lab.    CBS News just obtaining these photos of some of the homemade bombs found there,  including this one that would have been detonated with a remote control car.  This, a bag full of possible pipe bombs. In this hour, we're going to take a  closer look at the shooters. We're going to talk to their next door neighbor.  She says they were a happy, seemingly normal pair. She had no idea that they  were making bombs in the garage next door to her. And we're going to speak to a  co-worker who sat next to Farook every day. He was in that office complex when  Farook and his wife opened fire. So much breaking developments tonight.    We begin with Kyung Lah who is OUTFRONT in San Bernardino. And Kyung, you've  been talking to Farook's co-workers and you were saying they even threw a baby  shower not that long ago. Did they see any sign of a change?   
KYUNG LAH, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: No signs. And that baby shower is an occasion that they were so friendly with one another that they wanted to  celebrate the birth of his baby daughter. He was someone who they described, as  being mild mannered, someone who didn't show any outward signs, not a man that  they ever imagined at their holiday party would hatch a plan and try to kill  them.           
LAH: Just minutes before the killers opened fire on the holiday party, Patrick Baccari left to use the bathroom when the attacks started.   
PATRICK BACCARI, WORKED WITH SYED RIZWAN FAROOK: I thought somebody booby-trapped the towel dispenser because I was being pummeled as I was pulling  the towel out of the dispenser. And so, I looked back at the mirror and I could  see I was bleeding -- my nose.   
LAH: Baccari hid in the Bathroom while Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife fired off 76 rounds killing 14 people. Farook and Baccari shared a cubicle for three years  at the San Bernardino County Health Department. They talked about cars, Farook's  six month old daughter, regular chat between two co-workers.   
LAH: Why do you think he did this?  
BACCARI: Well, I think his beliefs were contrary to our American dreams. You would think that somebody that's working to the capacity and education level  that you are has similar respect, values.   
LAH: Law enforcement sources tells CNN that Farook apparently was radicalized and in touch with people being investigated by the FBI, talking by  phone and on social media with more than one person being investigated for  terrorism. But a law enforcement source says those talks were infrequent. The  last one had been a few months ago, not raising any alarms. No red flags either,  say U.S. and Saudi government officials when Farook went to Saudi Arabia. The  FBI says, the 28-year-old had also traveled to Pakistan. The couple's landlord  who rented the apartment they would later fill with weapons and bomb- making  materials saw no sign this was coming.   
DOYLE MILLER, SYED RIZWAN FAROOK'S LANDLORD: It's beyond my comprehension. Because they seemed like such a gentle, mild person. So I don't know. You just  can't tell a book by its cover.   
LAH: Farook's brother-in-law didn't know.  
FARHAN KHAN, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF SYED RIZWAN FAROOK: I have no idea. Why would he do that? Why would he do something like this? I have absolutely no idea. I am in  shock myself.   
LAH: A sentiment echoed by Patrick Baccari.  
BACCARI: Who wants to call their 16-year-old kid to tell them, they just survived the attack. There's many people that didn't.   
LAH: Baccari says, the multiple bullet fragments in his body will stay, too risky to remove. What also remains, confusion, the man he so closely knew did  this, now turning to anger and fear.   
BACCARI: I believe every citizen here should be armed to defend themselves in case of this happening but that's not everybody else's belief. I couldn't have  defended anybody from the position I was in, even if I was armed. But at least  if they tried to come in and get us in that restroom, I would have had some way  of protecting the rest of us.       
LAH: Now, if there's any clue to violence in Farook's past, it is only seen in his parents' divorce records that filed with the court in 2008. And in those  records, his mother says that her husband -- her ex-husband now that he was  extremely violent, abusive, that he pushed her against the car, this is  something that all the children witnessed, that he would threaten suicide, he  even threw a television on her. She even filed a temporary restraining order,  violence that seemed to elude Farook's life but as an adult, Erin, when he came  to the IRC, the building behind me as police continue to comb through this, they  still have so many questions about how someone who was so mild-mannered on the  outside could have executed such a violent, violent act.   
 BURNETT: Kyung Lah, thank you very much. And we are learning much more about his family. We're going to be talking about that in a moment. But I  want to go now to Pamela Brown also in San Bernardino.    And Pam, you've been looking at the relationship between the shooters, between  Farook and his wife. This is one of the most bizarre and important parts of the  story. What have you learned?   
PAMELA BROWN, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: That's right. We've learned, according to officials we've been speaking with that it's believed that Syed Farook met  his wife in Saudi Arabia in the summer of 2014. Officials say, the last recorded  trip he had there was during that summer. He was there for nine days. That is  when they believe he met his wife. She then came back to the United States on a  fiancee visa and obtained a green card and became a legal permanent resident  from there. And frankly, that's all we've been able to learn about their  relationship because investigators say these were two people who were not on  their radar. These were people who weren't on watch lists, that they didn't have  adduceon them. And so, they are trying to learn more about this  relationship and how this was missed. We've learned that officials have been,  the FBI has been interviewing their family members and we're told that they have  been cooperating but in terms of a motive, that's still unclear at this hour --  Erin.   
BURNETT: And Pamela, you know, not only are there so many questions about them, it's so unusual that they could have been so off the radar. We also know that it  looks likely that they were actually preparing additional attacks. Is that  right?   
BROWN: That's right. In fact, we've learned that they had what appeared to be an ad hoc bomb lamb in the home. Farook's mother, there apparently were 12  explosive devices that were there inside that home, including 4500 rounds of  ammunition and remote control cars that they believe they may have intended to  use for the explosives. So, really a cache of weapons there and that's part of  the reason Erin, that in addition to the fact that Syed Farook appeared to be in  touch with FBI terrorism subjects, so they were not high-priority subjects. But  all of these combined is leading authorities to investigate whether or not he  could have been radicalized. But they're also looking at the possibility this  could have just been a workplace dispute or perhaps a blend of both -- Erin.   
BURNETT: All right. Thank you very much. Annie Larson lives next door to the shooters. Her home shares a back wall with theirs. Annie, you lived next door to  them for about six months. What were they like?   
ANNIE LARSON, SHOOTER'S NEIGHBORS: They just seemed like just regular neighbors, kind of kept to themselves, cordial and I would see a gentleman come home from  work and we'd greet each other and say hi, smile, met his mother, I believe, and  the woman that lived there. I didn't know their names.   
BURNETT: You didn't know their names.  
LARSON: At the time. But --  
BURNETT: Yes. I know that, you know, obviously now, you know, you're thinking, gosh, you lived so close to them. Police found pipe bombs in the house.   
LARSON: Right.  
BURNETT: Thousands of rounds of ammunition. I mean, looking back now, Annie, do you see any clues of what was actually happening?   
LARSON: In retrospect, there's always things that you can see. Of note lately, they just kept receiving multiple packages but it's Christmastime and that  seemed pretty normal. I know he did work in his garage pretty regularly,  sometimes the door opened, sometimes it was closed. So I didn't really think of  any -- I didn't notice anything particularly out of the ordinary for the area in  which I live.   
BURNETT: What were they like as a couple? Did you notice anything there? Or just, you know, seeming to be very normal American couple?   
LARSON: Yes. Normal. He was happy. I would see him smile. Kind of entering the house and -- we share backyard fences and can hear -- you can hear each other if  you're in the back and could hear the baby that they have there making baby  sounds and seemed happy and just normal, a normal life like you do with a little  baby.   
BURNETT: You have a baby yourself. I have a baby myself.  
LARSON: Yes.  
BURNETT: The fact that they had a baby here is one of the most impossible things to understand. I mean, you saw them. Did they seem excited about this new baby?  Did you have any feelings or see Tashfeen interact with her child? What did you  see?   
 LARSON: Just seemed like they were regular moms and dads doing normal life. Nothing really stood out. Seemed happy to be together. So --   
BURNETT: How do you now feel, Annie, that knowing that this was happening right next door to you? As you say, I mean, this was -- this was adjacent to your  home. This was touching your home.   
LARSON: I think the biggest feeling that as apparent probably in my face is sadness. Sadness for our community, sadness for the lives that have been lost.  Sadness that glimmers of hope seems to keep dissipating in all the madness of  the world. But there's always hope and hope will always prevail.   
BURNETT: Annie, when was the last time you saw them?  
LARSON: I think it was Sunday afternoon. I could see them through the fence. They just seemed happy. They were both kind of in and out of the house there on  the patio.   
BURNETT: They seemed totally normal.  
LARSON: Totally normal. No idea.  
BURNETT: Well, Annie, thank you very much for being with me.  
LARSON: You're welcome. Best to you.  
BURNETT: Art Roderick is a former assistant director for Investigations for the U.S. Marshals. And Art, you just heard Annie, she lived next door. I mean,  literally their house is touched, she said she had no idea they had a bomb lab  or an arsenal. I mean, it's frightening you know someone could do that. Could be  building what they built. And their neighbors would have no idea. I mean, how  easy it is to do this undetected?   
ART RODERICK, FORMER ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR INVESTIGATIONS, U.S. MARSHALS: Well, I mean, I think we've heard this description of individuals before that have  gone out and committed heinous crimes. Oh, they were a normal person. They were  nice to me. They waved to me. I think you hit on it, Erin, the key part here is  that six-month- old baby. I mean, how could they leave that six-month-old baby  and commit a crime like this? And whether it's, you know, it hasn't been totally  pinned down yet whether these was radicalized individual, whether they were  directed by someone, whether this was workplace violence. But I can't see this  being workplace violence when you have the tactics that they used, which we have  seen used in other terrorist attacks around the world. And to leave that  six-month-old child without any parents to, me, again, points another finger in  the direction of being radicalized.   
BURNETT: Yes. I mean, we just heard Annie say how normal they seemed, happy, normal, and normal with their baby. You know, how is that possible? The  co-worker said that, too. Everybody has said that. No one has said there was any  sign of radicalization.   
RODERICK: Yes. I mean, they don't want to -- none of these people that become radicalized actually want to attract a lot of attention. Once you start  attracting attention, you start attracting law enforcement or neighbors are  going to start talking and the word will eventually get back to law enforcement.  So, it just -- this is a bizarre set of circumstances from A to Z. This whole  scenario, whether it's a hybrid, radicalization or workplace violence, this  whole scenario is very bizarre and I think we're seeing something brand new  here.   
BURNETT: Certainly something brand new. Art is going to stay with me.   Next, the male shooter traveled to Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, communicated with  terror suspects. Did U.S. intelligence missed multiple red flags?    Plus, the shooters, their home loaded with guns, ammo, bomb- making materials.  What do we know about another imminent attack?    And new details on the massive manhunt that ended with a ferocious gun battle  and two dead suspects?   
 BURNETT: Growing questions tonight about whether the U.S. missed key warning signs about the shooters in the San Bernardino massacre. Law enforcement  officials telling CNN tonight they believed Syed Rizwan Farook may have been  radicalized and that he was communicating with more than one terror suspects who  was on the FBI radar. Now, we also know this. Farook travelled to Saudi Arabia  in 2013 or 2014, that is where he met the woman who became his wife and the  partner in the shootings.    Justice reporter Evan Perez broke the news about Farook's possible  radicalization. And Evan, what more can you tell us about his background?   
EVAN PEREZ, CNN JUSTICE REPORTER: Well, Erin, one of the things that the FBI is doing is looking at those connections that you just spoke about. Right now we're  told that the people he was in touch with, people who were subjects of FBI  investigations really weren't high level people. They were people who were of  interest to the FBI. They were not people who would cause the FBI to sort of  say, we're going to go six degrees of separation to see everybody that that  person is talking to. Nothing indicates that. And that's one reason why it may  not necessarily be a case of missed signals. And simply may be that this person  was so clean and tried to keep themselves so clean to avoid any scrutiny from  law enforcement and absolutely worked in this case. One thing that we know that  the FBI does in these cases is take a step back and say, should we have been  watching for this person?   
BURNETT: Right.  
PEREZ: Is there anything that indicates that we should have?  
BURNETT: And is there anything that indicates that, that he should have been on their radar? As simply became -- there's too many people and the people he  talked to were at such a low level that no one could have expected them to be  watching?   
PEREZ: Right. Exactly. That's exactly right. There's way too many people. As you know, there are 900 investigations going on around the country. Every state.   
BURNETT: Yes.  
PEREZ: And that was one reason why it's really is a haystack and people like this will fall through.   
BURNETT: All right. Evan Perez, thank you very much. And OUTFRONT now, I want to go to our CNN intelligence and security analyst, former CIA operative Bob Baer.  Also, former assistant director for Investigations for the U.S. Marshals Art  Roderick and retired FBI Profiler James Fitzgerald.    James, let me start with you. Do you have any doubt at this point that this was  an act of terrorism and specifically Islamic terrorism?   
JAMES FITZGERALD, FORMER FBI PROFILER: No doubt whatsoever. We have no indications that these people have reached out for workplace violence jihadist  training camps or cells. So, but we do know that they've reached out for and  they have actually visited, certainly with Farook himself other countries and it  was very possible he was in fact in a training camp there. We certainly see  through his tentacles that he's reached out for people on the list and that are  well-known to the FBI. They may not have been big players yet but they are  certainly on the score card and it's no doubt that he had some level of  radicalization from these people and from the visits to these other countries.   
BURNETT: So, Bob, we know that Farook himself travelled to Saudi Arabia, met his wife there. That was back in 2014, though. And we know he didn't return and  immediately start, for example, doing anything obvious, like growing his beard.  That happened later. There were no signs from anyone, from his neighbors, his  co-workers, guy who sat next to him, people we've talked to here on this show,  of him being radicalized. Do you think that that trip to Saudi Arabia was  crucial to this attack or not?   
ROBERT BAER, FORMER CIA OPERATIVE: Well, I can speculate at this point, Erin. But Saudi Arabia frankly is a mess. When this shooting started and the fact that  he had gone to Saudi Arabia, he met his wife there, been to the Haji and the  rest of it, people came back and said, look, Saudi Arabia is a recruiting ground  for the Islamic State for al Qaeda. I mean, it doesn't mean that he was  recruited there but he certainly would have heard arguments that you have to  take the jihad to the United States.   
BURNETT: Right.  
BAER: I mean, that doesn't mean he was sent. I don't mean that at all. He just would have heard this, especially in Mecca. The Saudis are very upset about what  is happening in Iraq and Syria. And he would have heard a lot of this and we  don't know about his wife. Also, what was she doing in Saudi Arabia and the fact  that they went there, they were looking for their roots and they found a  purified form of Islam --   
BURNETT: Uh-huh.  
BAER: -- which leads to Jihad. And somehow they expected those roles if indeed that's what happens. And the more I see this, the more it looks that's indeed  what happened 
. BURNETT: And we're going to be talking much more about herspecifically in a moment. But Art, I want to ask you another question about Farook himself. His childhood. We're learning it was troubled. Allegations his  father beat his mother, she went to court for that. Also a report, his mother  had set up an online dating profile for him several years ago, and in that it  said, he enjoyed target practice in the backyard. These are things that seem to  fit the profile of other horrific attacks, like even in the Newtown shootings.  How important are these things?   
RODERICK: Well, Erin, I think that the key part here is even in Newtown, there were some psychological issues going on here. We don't specifically though that  about this individual yet. I think, you know, a lot of people grow up,  unfortunately, in this country under that type of parenting and a lot of them  don't go out and end up killing 14 people and wounding another 19. So, you know,  as much as we hear about a horrible childhood he had, I don't think we should be  putting our head on the fact that that's why he actually went out and did this.   
 BURNETT: Right. And to your point --  
RODERICK: If you look at the last --  
BURNETT: Yes, to the point you're making --  
RODERICK: Go ahead, Erin.  
BURNETT: -- the gunman's older brother reportedly was a navy veteran. And when I say that I mean a very decorated veteran. He won several medals including one  called the global war on terrorism service medal. I mean, that's -- these two  brothers grew up in the same household. How significant is that revelation to  you, Art?   
RODERICK: I mean, that just goes more to my point that, you know, again, a lot of people grow up in these horrible situations but they turn out to be fine  later on in life. I don't think this is something we can hang our head on. I  think the key part of this whole thing is, okay, why do they go out and do this,  were they radicalized, were they not radicalized. And I agree with Bob, I mean,  to me, all of this points to radicalization because of the tactics in the type  of hit that they did in this particular horrific incident.   
BURNETT: And James, do you think that he should have been on the United States' radar? I mean, Evan is reporting they just have simply too many people to have  someone like this on the radar. But, are they going to look back and say that  this was a mistake or not?   
FITZGERALD: Well, I'm still in touch with my colleagues in the FBI and they feel to some degree their hands are tied. They are doing the best they can. They  realize there's all sorts of political and jurisdictional issues that have to be  addressed here but there's a lot that probably could be done in a case such as  this. And most likely should have been, whether it's a mistake or not, who  knows. And I can say this, there's probably people out there right now, the FBI  is watching. They may do nothing and there's unfortunately probably people they  know nothing about who may strike next.   
BURNETT: Thank you all very much. And we're going to talk much more about Farook's wife, the other shooter in a moment. And next, the shooter's planned a  very quick strike and fast getaway. They had at home a bomb-making lab. The big  question is, what was the next attack that they were planning? We have more  information on that after this break.    And the family of one of the shooters speaks out. OUTFRONT, next.   
 BURNETT: Breaking news, police revealing tonight that the married killers amass an astonishing amount of fire power. Thousands of rounds of  ammunition, high-capacity magazines were found in their home along with what  authorities are calling a bomb lab. I want to show you this. CBS News just  obtaining photos of the some of the homemade bombs found here. This is a bag of  possible pipe bombs. This is a bomb that they intended to detonate via that car,  remote control car that they were going to detonate at the scene of the attack.    Kyung Lah is OUTFRONT live in San Bernardino. And Kyung, on this issue  specifically, these pictures are chilling that they truly did have a bomb lab.  What more are you learning about it tonight?   
LAH: Well, the home -- you use the word astonishing, that they had this incredible arsenal inside the home and certainly helps us understand why the  police were being so cautious about entering their home. Remember, the process  was extremely long. They used robots to go in. They had a reason. Look at this  list that we've obtained from the police about what they found inside this home.  Twelve pipe bomb- type devices, bomb materials and tools, 2,009 millimeter  rounds. Twenty five hundreds. Two twenty three caliber rounds and several  hundred long-rifle rounds.    That's simply what police found inside the home and then after that shootout  between the SUV, the two gunmen inside the SUV and law enforcement, then when  they approach and they saw the two bodies, here's what they found on the killers  themselves. More than 1400 .223 caliber rounds and more than 209 millimeter  rounds. So, Erin, when you start to hear law enforcements talking about not just  was there planning for this attack, but when you look at what they found, that's  why some law enforcement experts are saying that they wonder if this was simply  just one attack or if there might be something further down the line.   
BURNETT: Hmm. Kyung Lah, thank you.   And OUTFRONT now, retired FBI profiler Jim Clemente, and Bobby Chacon, former  FBI special agent back with me tonight.    Bobby, let me start with you. We know Syed Rizwan Farook may have been  radicalized but what about his wife? When police announced that there were two  shooters and one of them was a female, pretty much everyone for a moment their  jaws dropped. How do you explain her role in this?   
BOBBY CHACON, FORMER FBI SPECIAL AGENT: Well, it's hard to explain currently. I'm sure the investigators are looking into her background. It's going to be a  little more difficult to determine her role because she lived overseas until  recently. It could be that she was the catalyst for the end of game  radicalization on his part. He was radicalized over the internet. They could  have -- obviously he was in contact with people over there. They could have been  tracking his level of radicalization and insert her into his scenario towards  the end game to be kind of a catalyst to set him in motion.   
BURNETT: And, Jim, let me ask you, though, in terms of her role, I mean, you know, obviously, he went to Saudi Arabia. That's when he met her. I mean, she's  obviously crucial to this story in every way. But she had a job in Saudi Arabia.  She was a pharmacist.    You know, having done reporting there, I mean, this is a country that has the  lowest rate of female engagement in the country than any other country in the  world. Her having had a job, at least at the surface level, she would appear far  from radicalized.   
JIM CLEMENTE, FORMER FBI PROFILER: Well, I think she was obviously intelligent. She had a job because she rose to the top of the workforce, the female  workforce. But I think this really good -- I agree with Bobby, this could really  be a case of romantic radicalization. In other words, he was actually targeted  by the people who wanted to convert him or push him into radicalization and they  pushed this woman towards him so that she could push him over the edge and  actually complete the job.   
BURNETT: So it's interesting --  
CLEMENTE: It's also possible he went there with the specific intent to find a woman like that.   
BURNETT: Right. So it could go either way. The crucial part about her role, I mean, they had a new baby, a 6-month new baby. We just heard, you know, the guy  who sat next to him told our Kyung Lah that they had a baby shower for him, and  she's the mother of a 6- month-old. It's unnatural for her to do what she did.    I mean, what could explain that, to leave a new baby, drop it off with someone  else in the morning and then go, knowing that you would at the least never see  that baby again?   
CLEMENTE: Well, I think it does -- it is very unnatural and it's something that would have taken a tremendous amount of effort to do on her part. That means  that the level of her commitment to this cause had to be extremely high. And  that's why I believe that she was already radicalized and he, in turn, her.  Also, the fact that she was able to act calmly in this tactical assault and the  shootout with the police. That's the kind of thing that only comes with practice  and massive preparation.    So, she was definitely trained and prepared for this kind of event. I think they  were going out in a hail of bullets either way. And that was their plan.   
BURNETT: Bobby, how much training do you think she had? To emphasize, when he went and did the attack, when they drove away, he was the one, we understand  from what officials have said, who was driving. She was in the back seat with an  AR-15 engaged in a firefight with the police. She was. Tashfeen Malik was the  one actually in the firefight.   
CHACON: Yes, she clearly had advanced training and clearly lots of it. It's going to be harder to determine that because she was living overseas but my  former colleague sent immediate leads last night overseas to all of our FBI  in area to determine her background, her connections.    They are currently working very hard to develop a profile of her and to see what  training she had, not only for this particular case, but, you know, whether she  had friends or sisters or people, a common cause with her who have come over on  these fiancee visas. And they're currently here. I'm sure they are tracking that  data.   
BURNETT: Jim, I mean, obviously, her involvement is a game changer in how law enforcement will look at this. Could there be something else, anything else that  could have explained her involvement, something like a postpartum psychosis?   
CLEMENTE: Well, postpartum psychosis, in the occasions that I've seen of it really is typically internal. I mean, the violence goes internally or within the  family, the kids are most likely going to be the targets of that or the person  suffering from it.     So, I don't see this as a common case of postpartum psychosis. This  is something much more related to extremism.   
BURNETT: All right. Thank you both very much.   And OUTFRONT next, Farook's family members said they were as shocked as anyone  by the deadly shootings. That's next.    And, it was like something out of a horrific movie -- heavily armed police  battling a husband and wife in a full on firefight. Our report, ahead.   
BURNETT: Breaking news: the search is on for motive behind the deadliest mass shooting in America since Newtown. The FBI speaking out to the Syed Rizwan  Farook's co-workers in San Bernardino. They're also said he was talking to  terror suspects around the globe.    The massacre, of course, playing out on live television, 14 people dying.  Tonight, new details about the attack.    Poppy Harlow is OUTFRONT.           
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You have a shooter in that car.  
POPPY HARLOW, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Police zero in on Syed Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik who just hours before had brutally shot and killed 14  people at an office event.     Acting on a tip, officers head to a house in a town of Redlands, just  ten miles from the scene of the mass shooting. A black Ford SUV drove by slowly  at first and then sped away.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are in pursuit of the suspect vehicle eastbound on San Bernardino Avenue and Richardson. We've got shots fired out the back window.   
HARLOW: One shooter fires at police in hot pursuit. The chase headed back to San Bernardino. All of it playing out on live television.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We have units in San Bernardino and Richardson are taking fire.   
HARLOW: The SUV comes to a stop and a full-scale gun battle breaks out.      
HARLOW: The shooters firing 76 rounds, at least 21 officers return fire, nearly 400 rounds riddled the SUV.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: East San Bernardino, multiple shots fired! We need a bearcat. We need medical.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right now we have one down outside the car and one down inside the car.   
HARLOW: Rizwan Farook gets out of the car but he doesn't get far. His body lying in a pool of blood just across the street. Malik, her 6-month-old daughter at  home with the grandma, dies in the car.    As darkness falls, a robot enters the shooters' home. Found inside, thousands of  rounds of ammunition, 12 pipe bombs and what investigators call a bomb lab. With  hundreds of tools that could be used to make explosives.       
HARLOW: And Erin, the big question that remains tonight, when did the switch flip? What motivated this young couple in their 20s to carry out mass murder?    The man who rented them that townhouse said that they were "timid", that's a  quote, and said that there was no cause for concern and then this, a mass murder  situation. Tonight, we still have FBI at the home. They're going through that  homemade bomb lab, seeing if it will lead them to any clues as to why this  happened, was it the radicalization that sparked this. What tells them about  what sparked all of this tonight -- Erin.   
BURNETT: Poppy, thank you very much.   Bobby Chacon is back with me.    And, Bobby, when you look at Poppy's report, all that video, the massive law  enforcement. I mean, massive and so fast, what sticks out to you?   
CHACON: Well, this is the new normal for us on the law enforcement side of it. We train with these people all the time at the state, local and federal levels.  We train for these scenarios, both on the response aspects, the forensic  aspects, the intelligence aspects and the investigative aspects. And we will  continue to be partners side by side with all of our federal, state and local  partners when these incidents occur and ongoing.   
BURENTT: And I guess the bottom line is, did they do everything they need to do? They didn't know anything about who this was and within a couple of hours they  did kill both suspects.   
CHACON: Yes. And I think that's the merging of the intelligence community with the law enforcement community at the federal level and things like a Joint  Regional Intelligence Center, JRIC, where we have our local and state partners  with us side by side always 24/7 working these cases.   
BURNETT: All right. Bobby, thank you very much.   And next, the shooter's brother-in-law speaking out. Tonight, a man he knew and  why he can't believe what he's done. That's OUTFRONT, next.    And Sanjay Gupta with his exclusive interview with the first responder to the  horrific shooting scene.   
 BURNETT: Tonight, breaking news, pictures of the bombs. CBS News obtaining photos of the bombs the shooters tried to use. One of them you see  here showing a bag of pipe bombs and this one a bag that was at the scene of the  attack that was supposed to be detonated using a remote controlled car.    Officials telling CNN Syed Farook may have been radicalized. His brother-in-law  speaking out about the attacks.       
FARHAN KHAN, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF SYED FAROOK: I'm very sad that people lost their lives and there's victims out there. I wish speedy recovery to them. And, again,  I'm in shock that something like this could happen.       
BURNETT: OUTFRONT now, a leader in the Los Angeles Muslim community, Hussam Ayloush was the executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations  in Los Angeles.    Hussam, thank you very much for being with me.    You've met with Farook's family. You appeared at a press conference with them.  What are they saying to you?    HUSSAM AYLOUSH, EXEC. DIRECTOR, COUNCIL ON AMERICAN-ISLAMIC RELATIONS, L.A. 
CHAPTER: Like all Americans, they are just distraught, they are devastated with the fact that one of their relatives could do that. I mean, the family -- the  spokesperson for the family, Mr. Farhan Khan, expressed and conveyed the genuine  sentiment of sorrow, of sadness that his brother-in-law could commit such a  crime.    They, of course, express solidarity, like the rest of American Muslims and the  rest of all Americans, they stand in solidarity and offer their heartfelt  condolences to the families and the loved ones of the injured and the killed as  a result of that hateful, horrific crime.   
BURNETT: Hussam, you're going to be speaking at Farook's old mosque tomorrow. What are you going to say?   
AYLOUSH: Of course, I'm going to be there to convey the message that everyone in the community feels this is a crime that is absolutely no justification for such  behavior, for such act. Regardless of the motives which are might not be clear  to us, this is a time of solidarity, of resilience.    We're not alone. This is not about Muslims mourning alone. Yes, it's our time on  Friday but this is a time where nationally, as a nation, we're mourning for such  crimes, whether it's in San Bernardino or whether it's in Colorado Springs or  anywhere else.   
 BURNETT: Hussam, CNN is reporting that Farook may have been radicalized.    President Obama said after the Paris attacks that leaders in the Muslim  community are not doing enough to stop terrorism. And I'll quote him, in part.  He said, quote, "There are some who say, well, we don't believe in violence but  are not as willing to challenge some of the extremist thoughts."    Do you feel that he's talking to you, that you need to do more than condemn an  act like this as a leader in the Muslim community?   
AYLOUSH: Well, that's -- I mean, we have to put things in perspective. I mean, there are 1 .6 billion Muslims in the world. Those who commit such horrendous  acts are really a tiny, tiny small minority. No more in percentage than those  who commit attacks on the Planned Parenthood centers and places who definitely  do not represent Christianity.    Let's put things in perspective. These are political not religious conflicts,  the result of instability in Syria, instability in Iraq, instability and  dictatorships in part of the Middle East, this is not a Muslim problem. This is  a problem for the world and it needs us united, not singling out the victims.  Most of the victims of terrorism continue to be Muslims.    So, this is a time when we need to stand in solidarity together, address the  root causes of terrorism as we need to, in the Middle East, by making sure we  support democracy, freedom in that part of the world against attacks, you know,  from Russia, from ISIS and others. But at this time, time to mourn with the  victims, it's time to offer our condolences and certainly make sure that our  voices, not just as Muslims, as a community of multiple faiths, we speak against  injustice.   
BURNETT: Thanks very much to you, Hussam.   And OUTFRONT next, as hundreds ran for safety, first responders ran to the  danger. Our Sanjay Gupta has an exclusive interview with one of those heroes.   
 BURNETT: Breaking news, we now know the identities of the 14 people gunned down yesterday in San Bernardino. The victims, six women and eight men  were between the ages of 26 and 60. Among the dead, Michael Wetzel, a father of  six.    In a statement, his wife said Michael was the most amazing person that she has  ever met. And as hundreds of terrified people fled the scene of the attack  yesterday, first responders ran as they always do towards the danger.    And our chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta is OUTFRONT now. He spoke  with some of those brave people.    And, Sanjay, you spoke to an ER doctor, who's one of the first to arrive on the  scene, what did he tell you?   
SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, he got there before the SWAT teams did, so he was seeing some other people within that  building starting to bring the injured out, you know. What we're hearing, Erin,  is a lot of times these doctors have to get into these situations quickly and  they often times will take care of patients on the scene there. They just don't  have time sometimes to transport them back to the hospital. So he was taking  care of some of the injured there in the field on the scene.    And, you know, as you might imagine, Erin, some of the injuries were pretty  awful. This was somebody who had spent time in various wars and he was likening  it to some of the battling he seen in the past.   
BURNETT: And you also learned something very surprising about one of the doctors you met.   
GUPTA: Yes, you know, it's interesting, you know, the whole culture in some ways is changed because these doctors often times have to go into these scenes that  are still active. They are still dangerous. At the time they are trying to save  other people's lives, they themselves may be putting their lives at risk and  they are trying to figure out how to do both roles.    Dr. Michael Neuki is one of the guys who does that. This is how he put it.       
DR. MICHAEL NEUKI, ARROWHEAD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER: I should be able to defend myself when it's necessary and also have the capabilities to deal with the  wounded in the field.       
GUPTA: So, you know, they literally in addition to stethoscope and medical equipment, Erin, what I'm describing is more common. But in addition to taking  medical equipment, he's also carrying a handgun. He's carrying an assault rifle  himself. He is someone who is trained. He goes and trains with the SWAT team.  He's a member of the SWAT team in this area and he learns how to be able to  defend himself and protect his patients in the field.    So, it's a hybrid role that's emerging I think in many ways as a result of the  times in which we live, Erin. He's part soldier. He's part doctor. And he often  times does both at the same time.   
BURNETT: All right. Sanjay, thank you very much.   That's just pretty stunning, doctors carrying assault rifles. A lot of people  questioning how that happens in this nation.    President Obama lighting the national Christmas tree tonight. It's a White House  tradition. It's usually a very happy event but obviously tonight anything but.  The president took a moment to reach out to those who lost a loved one in the  San Bernardino shooting.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Their loss is our loss, too for we're all one American family. We look out for each other in good times and in  bad, and they should know that all of us care about them this holiday season.  They are in our thoughts, they are in our prayers, and we send them our love.       
BURNETT: Something for everyone to think about, the president at the tree lighting ceremony tonight.    Thank you for joining us. Be sure to set your DVR. You can record OUTFRONT and  watch the program at any time. Our breaking coverage of the San Bernardino  massacre continues right now with "AC360."   
