    
HIGHLIGHT: Colorado Springs police officers and community members who have come together to honor and mourn the three people killed in this siege, and last  night, there was a vigil held for Officer Garrett Swasey. Governor Chris  Christie's struggling presidential campaign getting a much needed boost forward  after he received a highly coveted endorsement by one of New Hampshire's most  influential newspapers.     
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: Now, we know the FBI is conducting its own investigation trying to determine if federal charges should be filed.     We have with us to talk now, CNN law enforcement analyst and former  director of the U.S. Marshals Office, Art Roderick.    First to you, what's that federal investigation look like?   
ART RODERICK, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, the federal investigation it sort of falls under the FACE Act, which was an act signed in 1994 by President  Clinton. It's a Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act which goes primarily  to Planned Parenthood facilities but threats to employees, arsons, bombing. So,  there is a nexus but only like a ten-year jail time for those particular crimes.    So I'm sure that the FBI is coming in the Department of Justice and looking at  more of a domestic terrorism type investigation and also coordinating the local  DA out there to find which charges are more heinous. Obviously we have three  people that were killed here, to include a police officer, and I send out my  condolences to the Swasey family.    I'm a native of Massachusetts. I was a police officer in Massachusetts for  sometime. And I know his family comes from Melrose, Mass. And just want to let  him know our thoughts and prayers for him and his family but the victims of  Colorado Springs horrific incident.   
BLACKWELL: We're hearing from people who knew him well and hear a lot of good things about Officer Swasey.   
RODERICK: Yes.  
BLACKWELL: Let me ask you about the motive. We know the suspect, Robert Dear, mentioned baby parts, mentioned antigovernment anti- abortion views but still  law enforcement hasn't determined a motive. Why not and what else do they need?   
RODERICK: Well, I think at this particular point he seems to be sort of all over the place. It kind of reminds me of the Unabomber Ted Kaczynski, sort of a  loner. I'm sure, you know, they said he's kind of off the grid. I'm sure once  they get into that, they probably already have, in his trailer, they might find  some writings, manifesto, or some documents that will link to a broader reason  why as to why he did this.    But it sounds like he kind of has a lot of issues going on here. I did hear  early on there's possibly mental health issues also involved.   
BLACKWELL: Let me ask you, I don't know if it can be answered at this point. We know so little about the chronology of what happened there. We don't have the  names of the two of the three victims.    Do you see there was anything in the case from the intelligence standpoint that  could have prevented this?   
RODERICK: When you have an individual like this, now, you know, this off the grid part really makes it a lot more difficult. If he was on social media and  talking to other people in the chat rooms, you know, you will get a phone call  on occasion that, hey, this guy is saying he's going to be doing something.    I think in this particular instance it's difficult to have stopped something  like this. This individual sort of, you know, he had a barricade situation, a  hostage situation, and he was sniping at police officers, and the public from a  quarter of a mile away. I think that's where a lot of the initial confusion came  in when the police first responded, is that when somebody is shooting at you a  quarter of a mile away, a lot of times it's very difficult.    As far as preventing something like this, unless he's out there espousing this  stuff openly in public or on social media, it's difficult to stop something like  this.   
BLACKWELL: All right. Hopefully we learn more about what happened inside that building and more about this man and, of course, more about the victims. We're  waiting for the names. And some people, as we know, victims being released from  hospitals.    Art Roderick, thank you so much.   
RODERICK: Thank you, Victor.  
BLACKWELL: Meanwhile, police officers and community members are coming to honor and grieve for the three people killed in the seen. Last night, there was a  vigil held for the officer Garrett Swasey. Take a look at all this, folks. While  the attack was going on, he heard the radio call for backup, rushed from his  post as a campus police officer to help. Those are his colleagues there  remembering him side by side, as a devoted officer, a husband, and a father.       
CHIEF BRIAN MCPIKE, UCCS POLICE: Garrett stood for something. Garrett stood for our American flag. He stood for justice. He stood for our university. He stood  for our law enforcement brethren.    Garrett was an amazing, amazing individual. She knew Garrett. She knew Garret  would not not go. She knew and she said to me that he knew, he knew the risks  and he loved what he did. He dedicated himself to being here. He dedicated  himself to this profession. And there's no way, there's no way that anything  could have made him a better officer.       
 PAUL: Our Stephanie Elam is live in Colorado Springs with more on those responders.    And, Stephanie, I know that -- I can't imagine what it is like for them to try  to reconcile this, the whole community. For the first responders and officers,  do we have any gauge what kind of resources are available to them right now in  the aftermath?   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Christi.   That's one of the things that we keep hearing about, is that they are banding  together to help the community, to help the healing that the officers are  looking out for their own, and also, a community pouring so much outreach to  help them, as well. Obviously, it's a difficult situation because we know  Officer Garrett Swasey lost his life. But we don't know the two civilians and we  probably won't until after Monday after the autopsy results are completed.    So, it's hard to heal when you don't know all the details surrounding who has  lost their lives. We're starting to learn more about some of the people who were  injured, including -- keep in mind there are five officers injured and four  civilians that were injured as well. We're learning more about what transpired  when the officers were hit. We understand that Dear was allegedly shooting  through buildings and so that's how some people got hurt as bullets were coming  through the wall.    We have now learned that officer -- SWAT Officer Dan Carter was hit. We have  audio. So you can take a listen to how he sounded in those moments when he  realized he was shot in the leg.       
OFFICER: I've been shot. I've been shot.  
DISPATCHER: Where at?  
OFFICER: On the south side of Planned Parenthood.  
DISPATCHER: Copy, on the south side of Planned Parenthood, been shot.  
OFFICER: Shots! I'm under fire. I'm shot! I'm hit.  
DISPATCHER: Where was he shooting you from? Where's he at? Fifty- three, go ahead.   
OFFICER: Right there in the parking lot, I was shot in the leg.      
ELAM: Now, we know of the nine people in the hospital, there were five people that remain. So, some people now doing well enough to recover at home, but still  a very devastating what should be a lovely holiday weekend spent with friends  and family becoming a devastating turn of events here in Colorado Springs --  Christi.   
PAUL: All right. Stephanie Elam, we appreciate it. Thank you so much.   Well, before becoming a six-year campus police veteran, one of Officer Swasey's  first love was ice skating. He was a champion ice dancer. And Swasey was skating  partners with former U.S. national champion, Nancy Kerrigan. The two were  childhood friends in fact growing up in Massachusetts. Kerrigan said she's just  heart broken by his death and described him as a little brother to her.       
NANCY KERRIGAN, FORMER TRAINING PARTNER OF OFFCER SWASEY: A true friend, just very loyal, and loving, caring person. Good listener. He was sort of passionate  about everything. Everything was done with great big giant smile and he had fun  in life. So sad. He's got two young kids that they literally run to him every  time he comes in the door.       
PAUL: The police chief for Officer Swasey's department says Swasey had an enthusiasm that was hard to quell.   
BLACKWELL: Donald Trump showing a bit of his diplomatic side, just a bit of it. The GOP frontrunner addresses his feud with a "New York Times" reporter and he  talks about the controversy involving how his supporters punched and kicked a  protester at an event. That's coming up.   
PAUL: And Dr. Ben Carson fresh off his fact-finding mission to a Syrian refugee camp sits down with CNN's Brianna Keilar. She's joining us of a preview of what  he said.   
 PAUL: Twelve minutes past the hour.   And new this morning, Governor Chris Christie's struggling presidential campaign  getting a much needed boost forward, let's say, after he received a highly  coveted endorsement by one of New Hampshire's most influential newspapers.    In an editorial by "The New Hampshire Union Leader", the publisher wrote, quote,  "Governor Christie is right for the dangerous times. He has prosecuted  terrorists and dealt admirably with major disasters. Others have gained media  attention by speaking bluntly. It's important when you're telling it like it is  to know what you're talking about." Ouch!   
BLACKWELL: Yes. They had a couple of other jabs. We'll talk about that with Ben Ferguson and Jeffrey Lord.    I mean, we also have from this -- good morning to you, gentlemen.   
JEFFREY LORD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Hey, guys.  
BLACKWELL: They say, also, we don't need a fast-talking well-meaning freshman U.S. senator. We don't need someone from the private sector who has no public  experience.    Let me come to you first, Ben. Of course, Governor Christie wants the  endorsement. What does it mean, though?   
BEN FERGUSON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, any time you get the endorsement you're out touted as a big deal. But if you're not getting the endorsement, this  is not the end of the world. Very few papers have been able to pick the  candidate they want to win especially when you're talking about for early  primary states.    So, yes, for Christie, it's a great thing. For others in there the idea the  paper wrote we need someone with experience in politics as an outsider. Well,  that certainly doesn't seem to be what the appetite is of many voters in Iowa,  New Hampshire, and South Carolina, and move on down the list.    They consistently are seeing the outsiders as the type of person they want. So,  I would take it with a grain of salt. It's great for Christie but is it going to  make him somehow surge in the polls? Probably not.   
BLACKWELL: Hey, Jeffrey, let me come to you. You're a Trump guy on the record. Could Governor Christie be the establishment candidate? The non-Trump that  voters can coalesce around?   
LORD: Sure. Possible. I mean it is entirely possible that one person is going emerge as the establishment candidate. Of course, I think in the beginning  everybody thought it was going to be Jeb Bush. Now there seems to be some  thought it's Marco Rubio. Now it's maybe Chris Christie.    Whoever it is, I'm not sure that being known as such is an asset. The  establishment, particularly the Republican Party is a mighty popular thing to be  around at this point. I'm not sure it would help him, if, in fact, that's the  case.   
BLACKWELL: All right. Let's talk about Trump. He had the rally in Sarasota. We know he was facing the controversy of not just the "New York Times" reporter but  the beating of and punching of a protester in this protest in Birmingham.       
 BLACKWELL: We're going to play what he said and then we can talk about it, and when a protester was removed yesterday in Sarasota. Watch this.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Do you see how diplomatic I've become? Right? Because at the last rally we had one person -- we had 15,000 people, we  had one person who was really, really being bad. Really being bad and it was  horrible. It was horrible. And we said get him out. We were a little bit rough  and I got criticized. Today you are my witness I've been nicer than that, right?       
BLACKWELL: Is that a little tongue or cheek or is there something else here?   Jeffrey, you first.   
LORD: Well, you know, Victor, I want to say something that I've discovered here. You know, I do radio shows on occasion, you know, around the country where I'm  asked to talk about various things. By consequences, I did too in Birmingham,  Alabama, right after that event.    And both hosts separately told me that this story was being played for other  than what, in fact, happened. One of the hosts was there and they said they had  a number of calls from people at the event who said the guy was not only a  well-known local troublemaker who would seek these things out but tried to, in a  tightly packed crowd bully his way to the front of the crowd thus soliciting the  action. They said the national media coverage throughout has been wrong about  this. I wasn't there. I don't know I'm telling you what I'm told about this.   
BLACKWELL: I will say we put the video up. And even if this was a local activist who tried to make his way to the Trump, he was, as we see on the video, reported  on CNN.com and tweeted out by our correspondents beaten and punched and kicked.  Here it is as we're speaking about it.    Ben, to you on Trump. He also spoke about this "New York Times" reporter saying  he would never make fun of a person's disability. But does that correspondent  with what we've heard from Donald Trump and the rhetoric thus far?   
FERGUSON: This is classic bully Trump. Whether it is laughing at the idea that a troublemaker got what he deserved or, you know, mocking a disabled reporter. It  was obvious he was mocking the disabled reporter. Let's be clear and candid  about that.    Yet, he seems to be -- it almost fits the M.O. that he wants. He wants to have  the persona of I will take on anybody anywhere. A protester, a reporter. I don't  care who it is. And his supporters absolutely love that. The anti-establishment  I'm my own man. I owe know one anything. I'm not controlled by anybody. It fits  the narrative.    The big problem is, I think, for Donald Trump moving forward now when people on  the fence looking at all these other candidates. Whether it'd be Ted Cruz or  Marco Rubio and Chris Christie and then Donald Trump -- is Donald Trump doing  the right things to get you on policy issues?    We're not talking about policy issues with Donald Trump. We're talking about a  theater of show of events of, you know, this is how I deal with things and the  exciting TMZ part of the campaign trail. I think that's where he gets himself in  trouble moving forward is he may have maxed out his base. He may not be able to  add many more votes to the numbers.   
BLACKWELL: All right. Ben Ferguson, Jeffrey Lord, we have to leave it there.  
LORD: All right.  
BLACKWELL: Thank you both.  
FERGUSON: Good morning.  
LORD: Thanks, Victor. Thanks, Ben.  
PAUL: Meanwhile, Dr. Ben Carson is talking this morning about what he's learned from his -- let's call it a surprise trip, because not many people knew about  it. It wasn't publicly known. His surprise visit to a refugee camp in Amman,  Jordan.   
BLACKWELL: And what he said he witnessed with his own eyes on the plight of the Syrians who were in those camps. That's next.   
 PAUL: Twenty-two minutes past the hour.   In an interview with Dr. Ben Carson set for later this morning on CNN "STATE OF  THE UNION", this, of course, after his trip to Jordan where he called the crisis  there a, quote, "great human tragedy."    CNN's Brianna Keilar is in for Jake Tapper, has for us on that one-on- one with  Dr. Carson.    Did you get a sense, Brianna, that maybe his thoughts have shifted at all since  the trip?   
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: I don't think that's the sense I got, Christi. Good morning to you.    It seems as if going on this trip, of course, Dr. Carson opposes settling  refugees from the Syrian crisis in the U.S. he seems to have, I guess, a  different -- not a different explanation, but maybe an explanation that is  backed up by experience. He said talking to refugees in Jordan. They want to be  resettled in Syria. That's obviously not possible. We talked about whether they  would rather come to the U.S. or whether they would remain -- whether they would  rather remain in Jordanian camps.    And his explanation of that I think is going to surprise you a little bit. He  talks about the refugee camps and what the U.S. role should be aside from taking  in refugees and what he tells us about the refugee camps is going to be  surprising to the other viewers.    This is a trip that comes at a interesting time. The Carson camp said it's been  in the work for some time, but at the same time when you see candidates take a  trip like this, it's generally to try to show off some of their foreign policy  bona fides and this comes at a time when Ben Carson needs to do that.    In the last month, he's seen his stock sink in Iowa. He has dropped ten points  when you look at the Quinnipiac University polling. He said he thinks it's  because some Americans of uncomfortable with him being at the commander in chief  at a time when terrorism is such an issue. The Paris attacks really changing the  landscape here in the last month.    So, I'll ask him about that, Christi, and I think it's going to be somewhat  surprising when you find out what a he's learned about the threat that ISIS  poses.   
PAUL: Yes, very interesting. We're looking forward to it, Brianna, thank you.  
 KEILAR: You bet.  
PAUL: Absolutely.   "STATE OF THE UNION" starts at the top of the hour 9:00 a.m. right here on CNN.   
BLACKWELL: A veteran police officer 20 years on the force was killed while responding to a domestic dispute call last night. This happened near Pittsburgh.  Investigators say Ray Shelter, Jr. shot Officer Lloyd Reed and he ran off.  Police later caught up with shelter and arrested him after a five-hour manhunt.   
PAUL: Protests in Chicago over the death of and shooting into Laquan McDonald, showing no signs of slowing down tonight. There was another night of  demonstrations. Protesters demanding top city officials step down and many  alleging a yearlong cover up of the video showing McDonald's death. It appears  to show the officer arriving and shooting 16 bullets in 15 seconds.   
BLACKWELL: The Central Plains hit hard by a winter storm. More than a dozen people killed in Texas, and Oklahoma. Heavy flooding and more than 70,000 people  in Oklahoma have no power.   
PAUL: We're wishing you the very best. Hope that goes away soon.   And we're glad that you are with us in the morning. Thank you for being here.   
BLACKWELL: Always good to have you on a Sunday.   "INSIDE POLITICS" starts right now.   
