    
HIGHLIGHT: FBI announces the San Bernardino shooting is being investigated as a terrorist attack. The apartment where the San Bernardino shooters lived is  visited by the media. A race car driver with dwarfism is interviewed. Americans  speak about recent violence.     
 FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: All right, the next hour CNN Newsroom begins right now.    Hello again, thanks so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. We have  breaking news in the investigation into the deadly shooting rampage in San  Bernardino, California. CNN has just obtained this photocopy of female attacker  Tashfeen Malik's Pakistani national identification card. This as an ISIS radio  station claimed this morning that the two shooters were, quote, "supporters of  ISIS." The FBI announced they are investigating the massacre as an act of  terrorism.    Let's get to CNN's Stephanie Elam who is in Redlands, California outside the  unit where the two lived. What more information are you gathering about this  Pakistani I.D. card?   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: What's important about this I.D., Fredricka, is the fact that it does give us an indication on when she was in Pakistan  before becoming -- moving to the United States under that fiance visa. Also just  another picture we could find because there were not a lot of images that we  were finding here of Tashfeen Malik before she came here to marry Syed Farook.    The other thing that we do know, you were talking a bit about this fact that  they, ISIS was taking credit, saying that these were supporters of ISIS. Not  necessary that they had anything to do with ISIS but that they were supporters  of ISIS.    And we also have learned that Facebook did see that there was a post of someone  saying that they were pledging their allegiance to ISIS and the leader of ISIS,  and it turns out they believed that was Tashfeen Malik using a different name  posting that as well right about the time this attack started here in San  Bernardino, that post being taken down.    So the thread here, we're starting to see more of the thread, and especially now  that we hear that officials here in the United States are saying this is an  investigation into terrorism now. So changing the tone as this investigation  deepens and we get more into the background of these individuals, Fred.   
WHITFIELD: And then Stephanie, you were among the first reporters who had a chance to enter the unit where they lived. Why did investigators feel like it  was an all-clear crime scene now and this would be a good time for reporters to  see what's inside and see how they lived?   
ELAM: I think it's less about how officials felt about it and more about the landlord saying, sure, come in and take a look. At this point by the time we got  that glimpse inside the building here behind me yesterday where the killers were  living, it was no longer a crime scene. The tape was gone. They were done with  it. The FBI making very clear shortly thereafter that this was no longer a crime  scene, and once they turn it back over to the owner, it's up to that individual  to decide whether or not they let people in. And so going in was not something  up to the law enforcement, but at that point they had already done their  investigation, and so it was done.    And it's worth pointing out, too, that we have heard a lot about Malik and  Farook building bombs in their garage. That is a separate unit from the rest of  this house, and we didn't see any of that inside of the actual household. That  was in the garage so we didn't see that part. What I can tell you, though, is  looking around the house, for the most part it looked like a very normal house.  And I think for a lot of people is the question is did they look like they were  harboring some long hate and fear for the United States that they were going to  pull off anything like this. That evidence may have already been gone, but when  you looked around the place, it looked like they were blending into the American  society better than perhaps some people might have expected, Fred.   
WHITFIELD: All right, Stephanie Elam, thank you so much in Redlands.   The FBI meantime is looking into the possibility that Tashfeen Malik may have  influenced her husband into becoming radicalized. Dr. Zuhdi Jasser, founder and  president of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy, spoke with me about how  ISIS influences people to become killers and the signs they give that might have  been missed.       
DR. ZUHDI JASSER, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT, AMERICAN ISLAMIC FORUM FOR DEMOCRACY: We see radicalized the sort of things that you think a normal Muslim, and all of  a sudden they just bond with ISIS. The ISIS stage is the operationalization  where they become militant jihadists and want to do something on the field  operationally and do the violent attack.    The radicalization takes years. ISIS is sort of providing that entire picture.  But the picture is the Islamism, the sense that Islam and the political  movement, the anti-westernism, anti-Semitism, the conspiracy theories, the  victimization, the sense of needing redemption, this connection some of this  devotionalism, et cetera, while certainly the solution will come from inside our  faith, and that's why this is a battle within, the slide towards radicalization  leads them to what many of us call Islamo-patriotism, or the allegiance to the  concept of the Islamic state and the caliphate. ISIS is tapping into that.  That's why it's becoming more successful at recruitment than Al Qaeda because  it's tapping into that Islamist fervor, if you will. The bottom line is  Americans that need to look for things and see something, say something, it's  about the sense of violence and are they going to act out. Yes, that's going to  happen in the last few days and weeks.     But us in the Muslim community, we had a summit yesterday of  reformers. We put together a two-page declaration that said these are the ideas  that are the dividing line between reformers and those who believe in the  Islamic State. So over years there's this drift towards a sense of allegiance  towards the Islamic State. So Muslims that are adherent to that are going to be  part of the problem and part of the pathway to radicalization. The belief and  apologetic about violent jihad, the apologetics about the inequality of men and  women, principles that run against what we're used to in western society are  part of the radicalization process, and until we Muslims, we're the only  communities that can address these things because we see them early. We can tell  Muslims that are sort of incompatible with western modernity and secular society  versus those that are drifting towards a hate for the west, a demonization, and  a sense that they want to become part of some other loyalty, and thus American  citizens become dehumanized and ultimately will become targets on their  battlefield.       
WHITFIELD: The FBI says there have been ISIS related arrests in 21 states and that all 50 states currently have active ISIS related investigations.    And this just in to CNN, President Barack Obama meeting with his security  advisors on the San Bernardino shooting today. He received updated information  from the FBI director, attorney general, and the secretary of homeland  secretary. CNN's Chris Frates is here to tell us about the meeting. Tell us  more, Chris.   
CHRIS FRATES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fred. So some news coming out of the White House today. The White House telling us President Obama met with his  intelligence team in the Situation Room this morning for an update on the  California shootings. Now, they highlighted several pieces of information that  are important, and they point to the attackers' radicalization, and that's  important because so far the only evidence made public of radicalization was  that one of the shooters Facebook post pledging allegiance to the leader of  ISIS. So now we have several pieces of information now that points to this  radicalization and opens up the question what other kinds of things other than  this Facebook post does the president know about? Certainly we'll continue  reporting on that and bring that to you as we can.    And also, FBI director, attorney general, homeland security secretary and others  reiterating that there's no evidence yet that the killers were part of a broader  terrorist cell. That's something we have known for the last day. They reiterated  that to the president. The president also telling his team to stay on this, to  use all necessary resources to make sure that the investigation continues, that  they get to the bottom of this, and in fact that they keep the American people  safe, Fred. So that's the update we have out of Washington from the White House.  We will keep you posted as we figure out what those new pieces of information  are.   
WHITFIELD: All right, will do. Thank you so much. Chris Frates in Washington.   Next, one of the 14 people killed in San Bernardino died shielding his coworker.  That colleague describes what her friend did and what he said in those moments  of chaos.   
 WHITFIELD: We're learning more about the 14 victims killed in this weeks' massacre in San Bernardino, California. One of them was 45 year old  Shannon Johnson. He died shielding his coworker from the hail of bullets. Denise  Peraza says he wrapped his arm around her, holding her close. She says, quote,  amidst all the chaos I'll always remember him saying these three words, "I got  you." Peraza was among the 21 wound and recovering at home. Our Boris Sanchez  has more on the other victims and their families.       
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: For the loved ones of the 14 people killed in the San Bernardino shooting, the emotional toll is immeasurable. Jennifer  Thalasinos lost her husband Nicholas, and his death may provide investigators  with more clues about the massacre. According to a friend, the 52-year-old born  again messianic Jew had a heated, passionate conversation about politics and  religion with his co-worker and gunman Syed Rizwan Farook just days before the  shooting.   
JENNIFER THALASINOS, WIFE OF NICOLAS THALASINOS: I'm sure he would have talked to him and probably evangelized with him. I'm sure they would have had  discussions about religion because my husband would discuss religion with  anybody that would listen.   
SANCHEZ: Those close to Robert Adams tells CNN the 40-year-old always wanted to be a father. He married his high school sweetheart, Summer, and finally got his  wish last year when she gave birth to Savannah. The couple had plans to take  their 20-month-old to Disneyworld next week. Bennetta Betbadal, a mother of  three, moved to the U.S. from Iran when she was 18 to escape religious  persecution. The 46-year-old was giving a presentation to her colleagues when  the shooters opened fire. Her husband says everything she touched bloomed. And  her daughter, 15-year-old Jolene is left with the memory of her mother's advice.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She used to tell me, like, that if I do go, I want you to, like -- I want everybody to stay strong, and I want you guys not grieving or  crying. That's what I've taken in, and just going off that.   
SANCHEZ: Michael Wetzel leaves behind six children. On a fundraising website for his family, his wife writes, quote, "I didn't know a better person. He loved his  work and his family so much. Without him this family will never be the same. We  appreciate all the love and support that everyone is showing." Daniel Kaufman  worked at a coffee shop at the Inland Regional Center.   
RYAN REYES, BOYFRIEND OF DANIEL KAUFMAN: Some people say somebody's smile can light up a room. This was actually true of Daniel.   
SANCHEZ: Hours after the shooting Ryan Reyes said he tried to reach his boyfriend again and again to no avail. "The L.A. Times" captured this photo when  he finally got the news that his partner was gone.   
REYES: Unfortunately it's events like this that really show you how important people are and how much people can actually impact other people's lives.   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: What did he mean to you?  
 REYES: He meant the world to me. He meant the absolute world to me.      
WHITFIELD: Many of those who knew Tashfeen Malik and her husband Syed Rizwan Farook say they are shocked they would commit such gruesome acts, while others  say they believe Rizwan Farook, quote, "married a terrorist." Our Drew Griffin  takes a look into the couple's history.       
DREW GRIFFIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A glimpse at the confusion inside a family searching for answers in an interview with CBS News.   
SAIRA KHAN, SISTER OF MALE SHOOTER: So many things I ask myself. I ask myself If I had called him that morning or the night before and asked him how he was doing  and what he was up to, if I had any inclination maybe I could have stopped it.  He was always shy and quiet.   
 GRIFFIN: Saira Khan is describing her little brother Syed Rizwan Farook, so shy he used dating sites to find a girlfriend, posting preferences,  that he liked to work on cars, go out to restaurants, take target practice in  his backyard, and was looking for a girl who wears a hijab, a veil. It was one  of these dating sites that would take him to Saudi Arabia where he would meet  his eventual wife and now dead accomplice. Tashfeen Malik is a mystery, a  Pakistani who lived in Saudi Arabia, came to the United States, married Farook,  had a child, and seemingly left an impression on almost no one.   
MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, FAMILY ATTORNEY: She was very conservative. She was a stay at home mom. She was help raising the children. She was helping taking care of  the mother at the house. They're a very close- knit family. Not too many people  knew anything about them.   
GRIFFIN: Despite becoming even more quiet and reserved after marriage, Syed Rizwan Farook and his immediate family were living a typical American life. He  grew up one of three siblings, living through a turbulent marriage of their  parents. Syed Farook himself finished college, was being paid $53,000 a year as  a health inspector. The trail to radicalization according to the family and so  far any record is simply not there.    We are also mourning the loss of someone with you knew or thought we knew. And  so we would really want everybody to give us some time to mourn or, you know,  give some time I guess, just like everybody else out there that needs time to  mourn.   
GRIFFIN: Drew Griffin, CNN, Atlanta.      
WHITFIELD: And coming up, it's been 95 years since "The New York Times" featured an editorial on its front page, but they did it today. More on that, next.       
 DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Rico Abreu was born with achondroplasia, that's a bone disorder that's the most common type of  dwarfism, but hasn't quelled the race car driver's competitive streak.   
RICO ABREU, RACE CAR DRIVER: I don't think my stature has affected my driving style or what I do on and off the racetrack. In everything I've ever done, I've  wanted to win.   
GUPTA: And win he does. Abreu won a quarter of his races in 2014 and grabbed his first ever NASCAR victory in July.   
ABREU: Got the lead with numerous laps to go and then lost the lead again and got the lead back with 10 laps to go and ended up winning the race. Crossing the  checkered flag when you win, there's not much more of a feeling than that.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And the celebration getting ready to get underway as Rico crawls out of the car.   
GUPTA: At just 4'4" Abrew has had his cars adapted to fit his height, and wants to inspire others with dwarfism to find a way to do what they love as well.   
ABREU: A lot of people come up to me and say how inspiring I am. I really feel that you can push yourself to do what you love.   
GUPTA: After all, on the racetrack, it's not about how tall you are.  
ABREU: Everyone is the same size when they race. And it's just about having the biggest heart.   
GUPTA: Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CNN reporting.  
WHITFIELD: All right, so much straight ahead. New developments in the investigation of the deadly shooting rampage in San Bernardino  California. CNN has just obtained a photocopy of the female attacker Tashfeen  Malik's Pakistani national identification card. Officials believed she lived in  Pakistan two years ago. And we just learned the White House said there is no  indication the couple was part of a larger organized terror group.    Wednesday's shooting massacre came barely a week after another mass shooting in  Colorado Springs. In the wake of all these tragedies, CNN set up an open mic in  several locations around the country and asked Americans if they feel safe.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, I'm going to be more careful and, you know, try to be careful about seeing people. It's something that happens really frequently now.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And it's not going to change the way that I live my life day to day, just looking around a little bit more. I have no desire to buy any kind  of firearm, but I do think that it should be more difficult for people to obtain  assault weapons.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: As far as changing my holiday plans, not a chance. No reason.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I might not want to go to a big political rally, stay away from the kind of thing that might be a target. But other than that I feel good.  You can't live your life scared.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's threats everywhere, and I think everyone has just go to be aware of general surroundings. No, I haven't changed any of my travel  habits. I haven't changed any of my day-to- day.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It was really disheartening. At this point it's like I feel I can't do anything as one person, and there's all this gun violence and stuff  like that.       
WHITFIELD: All right, some of your thoughts.   Meantime, checking our top stories, for the first time since 1920 an editorial  piece is the focus of the "New York Times" and they have front page published on  the front page of the morning paper. It calls for outlawing ownership of weapons  capable of mass killing.    And the U.S. Air Force says the bombing against ISIS is depleting its munitions  stockpiles and it wants more funding and weapons production. The Air Force also  says since the bombing campaign began 15 months ago it has fired off more than  20,000 missiles and bombs.    And an oil rig in the Caspian Sea catches on fire. There are conflicting reports  right now about how many people may have been killed and how many may have been  rescued. Reuters says a storm damaged the platform overnight and rough wind and  waves have made rescue efforts very difficult.    And NASA says these photos show some of the best ever close up images of Pluto.  They were taken in July as the spacecraft New Horizons flews by, and they were  just beamed back to earth. The pictures show craters, mountains, and glaciers.  NASA expects more photos next week.     And much more on the California massacre and the terror investigation  at the top of the hour. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. Thanks for being with me. Next,  "Vital Signs" with Sanjay Gupta.   
