    
HIGHLIGHT: Two suspects dead after the worst mass shooting since Sandy Hook.    
DON LEMON, CNN TONIGHT SHOW HOST: Anderson, thank you very much. Ten p.m. on the East Coast, 7 p.m. in San Bernardino. Our breaking news, two suspects dead after  the worst mass shooting since Sandy Hook.    This is CNN Tonight. I'm Don Lemon.    Here's what we know right at this moment. A police shootout on the streets of a  residential neighborhood in San Bernardino that leaves two suspects, a man and a  woman dead and one officer injured. The suspects dressed in assault-type  clothing armed with AR-15-type weapons.    A third person detained close to the scene. Police don't know yet whether that  person is connected to the shootings. It all comes after a brutal attack on a  conference center where county employees were having a holiday event.    Fourteen people are dead tonight and 17 injured. And that's where we start. I  want to bring in CNN's Scott Glover. Scott, I understand you're on the scene  now, in one of the scenes where you are located, what are you seeing?   
SCOTT GLOVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Don. I'm in Redlands, California not too far from San Bernardino and I'm standing outside in an apartment complex that is  linked to one of the suspects. Police set up here several hours ago, and they  are serving a search warrant that is related to the events earlier in the day.    There are dozens of officers on scene, some of them dressed in SWAT gear. Very  recently, they took a robot into the area of the residence and there was a loud  bang sometime after that. All we know is that they're serving this warrant in  connection with the shootings in the events earlier today.   
LEMON: They said that earlier they were not sure whether the device or whether a device in the home whether it was explosive, an explosive device or not. Have  you heard about anything about any explosions in the area, Scott?   
GLOVER: There was a loud sound. I cannot say if it was an explosion. But I have not been briefed recently by the law enforcement officials on the scene. So, I  cannot answer that question with any authority. But there was a bang of some  sort. Whether that was done by the law enforcement or there was a device and  yet, that townhouse I'm not sure 
. LEMON: OK. So, how far away, Scott, are youbeing kept away, are you close to the scene? And have they ordered people who are there to leave the scene? Any sort of evacuations?   
GLOVER: I'm about a probably a football field away from the scene. I don't know if you can make out or our viewers can make out that there are, you know, some  police vehicles, kind of a heavy armored SWAT vehicle in the background there.    I've been here for what feels like several hours. And, you know, it started with  a small police presence and that has grown considerably. You know, that the  perimeter here is blocked off in at least in four different areas. So, it's hard  to say how many exactly are out here now.    I do not know whether the town homes have been cleared. I would presume that the  town homes around the one in question have, but I cannot witness that from my  vantage point.   
LEMON: Is this the area where they said they saw a third person leaving the area and got reports of someone possibly jumping fences and they had to check the  area for a possible third -- for another person?   
GLOVER: From my understanding, what was said at a press conference earlier this evening by law enforcement officials, this is an address that was linked to two  people who had driven away from here. Police had come here on the basis of a  tip. They followed them and that resulted in the officer involved shooting.    I don't think it's a link to the third suspect. But that's what was said at a  press conference earlier this evening.   
LEMON: All right. Scott, I want you to stand by. I want to get to CNN's Kyung Lah who has been following the story as well. Kyung, tell our viewers where you  are and what's the very latest there?   
KYUNG LAH, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I'm where all of this began at about 11 a.m. today there was a call, an urgent call that there was a mass shooting at a  building about a block or so behind me. It is the IRC, the Inland Regional  Center. And it's a place that treats developmentally disabled.    They provide services to thousands of people. There are about 550 people inside  this building when the shooting took place. They are still trying to clear this  building. According to the ATF, they have found some sort of improvised  explosive device, they believe and they are trying to render it safe.    That's the language they use, render it safe. That has not yet happened, that is  expected to happen sometime this evening. So, still very much an active scene.  There are 14 people who have been killed, 17 who have been seriously wounded.  And they're still in the process; the police here are in the process of trying  to interview all of the people. Then you have the Redlands address, the ATF  there had to send in a robot. They are concerned about whether or not there are  any improvise explosive devices there. Then there is the shooting scene between  the -- and the two suspects in the SUV as well as the gunfire exchange between  the police and those two suspects.     That SUV, we've seen this throughout the night, those -- that  incredible video of all the bullets inside that SUV. The one thing that the ATF  says that they want us to know is that these two suspects hat two long guns,  AR-style 15-type weapons.    They also had handguns and they are in the process right now, according to the  ATF PIO of trying to trace those guns. They hope to have some sort of lead in  the next 24 hours, about exactly where those guns came from, Don.   
LEMON: Kyung Lah, that press conference was held not long ago, they said they did not know the identities of the suspects but then they were checking on them.  But there were two suspects, a man and a woman, dressed in black tactical type  clothing. What else do we know about the suspects?   
LAH: We don't know the relationship between these two suspects. we certainly know it's extraordinarily rare to have a woman involved, connected to some sort  of mass shooting. That really, really struck all of us out here. That it's  extraordinarily rare.    Also unknown is exactly what the connection was between the suspects and the  people who are inside this auditorium. We need to explain that where this mass  shooting took place. According to the police department, it was in a rented  auditorium. There were county employees having a holiday party and then the  shooting began.    It's unknown because there is a report that one person had some of dispute and  then left the party. It's unknown if the suspect was that person. So, police  right now still in the process of trying to interview people.    But, you know, beyond the fact that these two people, a man and a woman, we  don't have their ages, we don't know their relationship, but they were wearing  assault-type gear and they were heavily armed, Don.   
LEMON: OK. Kyung, I want you to stand by because I want to bring in our justice correspondent Evan Perez who's been working his sources in D.C.    Evan, I'm wondering why during this press conference that the police said they  weren't sure, they needed to check more but they would not rule out terrorism.   
EVAN PEREZ, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Don, at this point, they really don't know enough yet to rule anything in or out. But I can shed a little bit  more light on to what the law enforcement believes happened here further to what  Kyung was just describing. We're told that law enforcement believes that one of  these people -- one of these suspects was associated with this event, went --  was inside this event, there was some kind of altercation and left. And then  came back with at least one, or perhaps two other people and that's when the  shooting started.    This is all about 11 o'clock in the morning, local time there in San Bernardino.  And so, that's what the scene -- the way this began. This is a -- an event that  was being held by the county health department or health agency. And this person  was associated with that event was either belonged there, was attending it or  was scheduled to attend it.    And apparently, either was kicked out or there was some altercation that caused  him to leave and then came back and that's when the shooting occurred. Now, it's  not clear, again, at this point. The witness interviewed said to law enforcement  that there might have been as many as three shooters.    Now at this point, we're told by law enforcement that they're still not sure  whether there were three people. We know that at least those two people who were  involved in the later shootout, the one where the car was shot and the two  people who are dead. We know that those people are believed to have carried out  the shooting at a -- at the IRC.    But we do not know whether or not there was a third person. There was a third  person who's been detained, who's been interviewed. That person is not been  publicly identified. We don't know whether that person at all was associated  with this.    So, there is many, many unanswered questions. This is such an unusual event  because we have a couple of people who carried out a shooting. And again, you  look at the map there, you see that there is interstate, they could have been in  Mexico by now. They could have been anywhere and they decided to stay there,  clearly for a reason, perhaps to have a shootout with police.    We still do not know. Again, this is something that it's very fluid. The FBI,  the ATF are all there working the scene trying to determine whether or not there  is a terrorism nexus to this. These are all questions that will be answered in  the next few hours, Don.   
LEMON: Evan, stand by. I want to tell our viewers they are looking at live pictures now from Redlands, California where police are on the scene. It's also  the FBI are searching a home there, a town home there. There are reports or  there is a concern there that there is a possible explosive inside of that home.   
PEREZ: Right.  
LEMON: So, police are checking on that. So, Evan, here's the question. During the press conference, police said that there was -- there was a meeting, the  folks were in the meeting, the holiday type event. Someone did leave over a  dispute, as you've said. But they're not sure if it's the person or people who  came back. They're not sure if it's the same people 
.  PEREZ: Right,exactly. That's what -- that is right. What is exactly what they said at the press conference? I'm told by other law enforcement officials that they believe  that that is the person who was involved.    And now again, this is something that they are still doing a lot -- there is  still a lot of great deal of police work to be done here. And we also know, Don,  that one reason why they're searching this home is because it is believed to be  associated with this event, with this suspect that carried out this shooting.    So, again, that's one reason why they're at this home where Scott Glover was,  where you saw the battering ram that entered the home. And again, they're trying  to render safe what is believed to be an explosive.    We know that they've been looking at various items to see whether or not they  were pipe bombs. So far they have not found any actual explosives, that at least  according to what we've known publicly from the law enforcement.    But we do know that that home is associated with this event and with the  suspects who are believed to have carried out the shooting at the IRS there.   
LEMON: Reports of throwing pipe bombs, they had checked then they were not explosive.       
PEREZ: They're sure they're not to be.  
LEMON: Not to be explosives. Before I move on, I want you to -- I guess to get you to stand by in a moment. But talk to us about the weapons because as I  understand you're getting reports as to what type of weapons exactly were found  on the suspects when they were -- when they were shot.   
PEREZ: That's right. That's right, Don. They did recover two handguns and two AR-15-type rifles. And that's important because the witnesses at the event, at  the shooting said that the shooter or shooters used long guns, long rifles, to  carry out the shooting.    And that does explain why you have such a high number of casualties. And that  does -- it does explain that type of event. But again, that's what they  recovered so far from these two suspects that were killed, was at least two  rifles and two handguns, AR-15-style rifles.   
LEMON: All right. Stand by, Evan. Again, you're watching live pictures now from Redland, California, Redlands, California police, FBI authorities are on the  scene. They believe that there could be an explosives inside of this home.    This is the home that started the whole pursuit for these two suspects who were  eventually taken down by agents. Now I want to bring Bernard Kerik. He's a  former New York City Police Commissioner, and he joins me now by phone. As you  look at this, Mr. Commissioner, look at what's happening and you're hearing the  reports of a man and woman, tactical clothing, tactical gear, where does your  experience in authority lead you to here?   
BERNARD KERIK, FORMER NEW YORK CITY POLICE COMMISSIONER: Honestly, Don, I have to go terrorism on a couple of different fronts. You know, somebody said  workplace violence, and he got mad and he came back. Listen, you know, if he  didn't come back and just shoot the place up. If, you know, this is the same  guy, he came back in military-style clothing, armored vest, long guns, and then  some type of AR-15 or AK- 47.    You know, there is supposedly an IED placed in the -- in the buildings. There  may be explosives in the place that's now being searched by the FBI. The mere  fact that the FBI has just about taken over this thing, that tells me -- that  leads me to believe terrorism as well.    You know, the FBI has an enormous capability, experience and manpower. The Los  Angeles Office of the FBI is one of the largest terrorist task forces in a state  with the exception of New York City. So, I'm going toward terrorism. I think  this could have been and I said this earlier, this could been a sleeper that  went operational after maybe somebody had a problem. Or maybe this was the whole  set up.    And because they were in and out, got out of there, got completely out of the  area without being tagged. So, I'd say there was a lot of planning. This was  something they intended to do. And time will tell.   
LEMON: And it's also unusual to see a woman involved in a situation like this, right?   
KERIK: Yes, it's unusual. You know, listen, you know, if this is international terrorism, we see a lot of this abroad, we see it in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan,  you know, you can go to the Osama Bin Laden, the people who were protecting him,  those women, they were even protecting the men during the confrontation with  U.S. Special Operations.    So, women -- women who are involved in this type of stuff which is sort of  another indicator.   
LEMON: All right. Mr. Kerik, I want you to stand by because I want to tell you about a news conference tonight in San Bernardino. The assistant director of the  FBI addressed the question that's on everyone's minds right now. Listen to this.       
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI LOS ANGELES ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE: I know one of the big questions that will come up repeatedly is, is this terrorism? And I'm still  not willing to say that we know that for sure.  We are definitely  making some movements that it is a possibility. We are making some adjustment to  our investigation. It is a possibility. But we don't know that yet. And we're  not willing to go down that road yet.       
LEMON: The FBI earlier did not go that far, Mr. Kerik, and now the FBI has a much bigger role in this. Now they're saying they don't want to rule it out.   
KERIK: You know, you also have to keep in mind nobody wants to speculate. Nobody wants to, you know, they don't want to say the wrong thing. They don't want to  give the wrong impression.    And I think basically what the assistant director did was right on. You know,  look, we're changing some things. We're going to be looking at it, but it's  still premature to say. You know, and I think that's the right thing to do.    Don't put it out there unless you're absolutely sure. But as an outsider, you  know, with you and others as we watch this, I'd say it's leaning in that  direction.   
LEMON: All right. Thank you, Bernard Kerik. I want to bring in now Chris Swecker, former assistant director with the FBI. Mr. Swecker, there is  something, there is information that brought authorities to this home, either  names or some sort of identity or something, some information.    So, the FBI knows something. We're being very careful here as we should be and  the FBI is being very careful about this as well. Where do you think this is  leading?   
CHRIS SWECKER, FORMER FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: Well, I don't think that was a random target. It's an odd target of terrorism if it is in fact terrorism. But I  don't think it's a random target. And the fact that they were led to that house  by a tip; it leads me to believe that someone may have identified one of the  shooters. So, one of the shooters had a nexus to that facility or the party that  was going on.    So, I think you're going to see -- of course they're holding their cards very  close to the vest at this point as they will should. And Dave Bowditch, the  assistant director they run CLA Office is being very cautious, as Bernie pointed  out as they should. I think you're going to see this thing have a very close  connection to that facility.   
LEMON: We're getting indications, though, that this is different from other mass shootings that we've seen before. Do you agree with that? And if you do, how so.   
SWECKER: Well, differ in the mass shootings that have taken place in the United States which have all been deranged individuals with a grudge or some sort of  mental illness. We've only, we've seen one or two terrorist related attacks,  Hassan and the Tsarnaev Brothers. But most of our mass casualty incidents have  been deranged individuals, homegrown, not really driven by any particular type  of ideology. So, this is very different. This is multiple shooters, mass  casualties, military style of operation. Basically, what we saw in Paris.   
LEMON: Listen, I want to tell our viewers that as we're watching this we have Chris Swecker who is a former assistant director of the FBI on the phone with us  saying this is different than most mass shootings that happen in the United  States, but consistent possibly with ones that happened overseas.    Also I want to tell you that we are watching the scene in Redlands, California  where the ATF in far there -- an ATF on the scene now within a robot sweeping a  home there, a town home. They believe that there may be an explosive device of  some kind.    Our reporters and our crew came up on the scene to see them breaking down the  door with a battering ram going inside this. So, they did hear an explosion.  They're not sure if it's an explosion from a device going off or if the police  set off some type of explosion.    They also said that several magazines full of ammunitions were found on the  suspects, tactical clothing after they were killed. Also they said the suspects  were throwing devices out may too look like a pipe bomb. It turned out not to be  a pipe bomb. They were determined to be fake.    So, tell -- let's talk about this black SUV, Chris Swecker. Only two miles from  the Inland Regional Center, does that surprise you, why would they stay so close  if they were -- would there possibly be a second target here?   
SWECKER: Well, possibly. My understanding is that they, that the house was further than two miles from where the SUV ended up but they were spotted coming  out of the house, they got into a chase. It led back towards the clinic  facility.    So, the house itself is not as close as you might think. However, it still leads  me to believe that there is a nexus, a very strong nexus to the facility itself,  to the clinic. I think we're going to find that one of these people was an  employee, possibly and employee or past employee or had some other strong  connection there.   
LEMON: All right. Mr. Swecker, stand by. I need to get to someone who is on lockdown right now at their home. Her name is Rianne Boitler. Lockdown in the  Redlands. Ms Boitler, thank you so much for joining us.     Tell us what's going on in your neighborhood. How far are you from  the scene?   
RIANNAE BOITLER, REDLANDS RESIDENT: I would say we're about maybe 300, 400 yards away. We're in the same town home complex, just on the other side.   
LEMON: And what are they telling you?  
BOITLER: We are just being told just not to go outside and that's about it. My husband went outside to see what was going on earlier and the police told him to  get back inside. So, that's -- that's kind of what's going on right now and  that's that all that we know.   
LEMON: How long ago did they tell you not to go -- not to leave your home?  
BOITLER: About 30 minutes ago.  
LEMON: About 30 minutes ago. OK.  
BOITLER: Yes.  
LEMON: All right. Thank you. Please be safe and tell your husband, you know, stay inside and be safe. We appreciate you joining us here in CNN.   
BOITLER: Absolutely.  
LEMON: Rianne Boitler who is on lockdown about 300 or 400 yards, she says away from the home that they are searching there.    We're continuing the breaking news here on CNN as you're looking now authorities  on the scene in Redlands, California where they have gotten two suspects, two  suspects dead after a deadly mass shooting in San Bernardino today.    Investigators desperately searching for clues tonight. More on our breaking news  right after this very quick break.   
LEMON: Breaking news here on CNN, 14 people dead, 17 injured in a mass shooting today in San Bernardino, California. The live pictures you're looking at from  our affiliate KABC out in California.    Police are on the scene. The ATF on the scene using a robot to sweep apartments  in Redlands of this townhouse in Redlands, where they believe there is some  possibly some type of explosive device. They have -- the residents have been  told to -- not to leave their homes. It's not been an order of evacuation or  evacuation yet, but they have been told to shelter in place until the situation  is taken care of, until it is secure.     I want to bring in now CNN's Evan Perez, he's in D.C. and Kyung Lah  who is on the scene in San Bernardino, California. Kyung, we have been talking  about the people who they had -- today that they caught and killed, away from  the scene, not far away from the scene in San Bernardino.    Two people in black tactical type clothing. The last we heard from authorities  they said they did not know the identities of those people, at least they didn't  want to release the identities of the people to the public. They probably know  far more than what they're telling us.   
LAH: And we are getting a few more details about those two suspects. We have spoken to the ATF and they say when they were finally able to approach that  suspect vehicle. Those two suspects had two long guns, two AR-15-style rifles,  they also had two handguns on them.    And the other thing that I found interesting was they also had a number of clips  attached to their body. They were heavily armed. They were wearing military  assault-type clothing. And the reason why the police didn't approach the vehicle  immediately, the reason why is because there was a pipe thrown from the suspect  vehicle while police were engaged in this pursuit.    And that pipe looked like a pipe bomb. It had a wick in it, it was a metal pipe.  But when the authorities went to look at it they realize it was just a fake  device. But that's the reason why they were so cautious; they were concerned  that there might be something explosive in that SUV.    Meanwhile, there is a situation in Redlands; there is also an explosive device,  according to the ATF here at the original shooting scene. They're still trying  to disable that one, Don.   
LEMON: Evan Perez, there is also a third suspect that's in custody but they're not sure if this person was involved.   
PEREZ: Right. That's right, Don. At this point even, to give you a sense of the chaos of this investigation, and really, just the difficulty of doing this, they  still don't know now whether there was actually ever a third shooter.    That is something now that law enforcement is going back to check on. This is  based on early -- early reports from witnesses. And as you know, witness --  witnesses often don't necessarily remember everything that they -- that they  see. They're trying to get out of the scene and all that.    So, right now, we do know that these two suspects that were killed some distance  away from the original shooting scene are believed to be the people who have,  who carried out the initial shooting at the initial -- the initial shooting.    And so now the third scene that they're doing the search where the ATF has tried  to resolve whether or not there is an explosive device, that scene is associated  with one of these suspects, there is one of the -- it's his home or something to  that effect.    So, that is what we know from law enforcement at this point. It's not clear  whether or not there is still a third person at large. The third person that you  talked about was arrested, was detained and being questioned. His name has not  been released. We don't know whether that person has any association with this  event or just simply was at the wrong place at the wrong time.    And what's striking to law enforcement officials, Don, is simply the fact that  these people carried out the shooting then didn't go anywhere. Didn't -- they  stayed right there within a couple of miles of the original scene of the  shooting.    They could have been -- they could have gotten -- they could have gotten to Las  Vegas by the time of that second event. But they chose to stay there, and so the  question is, why was that, was there a plan to just shoot it out with the  police. We still don't know that, the answer to that question.   
LEMON: And according to investigators at the press conference held not long ago. I'm not sure if there is a third person or potentially more involved in this.    I want to go to CNN's Deborah Feyerick who has been working her sources as well.  Deb, my question is, do you know, does anyone know what exactly brought law  enforcement to this particular home?   
DEBORAH FEYERICK, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's actually a very good question. As it is been reporting after the shootout, during that holiday party, the  suspect left in a black SUV. Now very quickly, police were able to get some  information that led them back to that home in Redlands.    Police were sent to that home and it's there that they're being told by a source  that they saw a car resembling the black SUV passed by and the chase ensued. Now  one person was shooting at the police officer who was chasing the vehicle and  the other person was driving.    As Kyung mentioned, something resembling a pipe was tossed from the window. But  the cop was able to return fire at that car and that's when it sort of came to a  standstill that two suspects were shot and killed. The man and the woman, both  of them had assault rifles, they are AR-15.    It's unclear also whether there was a third suspect. Big question as Evan  reported, as to whether the third person was running away from the vehicle.     But those two bodies that were found near the car, Don, were checked  for explosives. The car itself was also checked for explosives. And so, but it  was some sort of the information that was developed at the scene of the original  shooting that was able to lead police to that Redlands home, and now FBI agents  are in midst of -- or in the process of searching that home as well, Don.   
LEMON: All right. Deb, stand by as we look at these pictures from Redlands, California where the ATF on the scene. They are trying to figure out if this is  indeed an explosive device and so how to disable it.    I want to bring in my panel of experts now. Harry Houck is a CNN law enforcement  analyst, retired NYPD detective, also Jim Maxwell, a Philadelphia retired  special agent to the FBI and a consultant as well to Buckley Peterson Global,  also, Chris Swecker is with us, a former assistant director of the FBI. Jonathan  Gilliam is here with us, a CNN military analyst and former FBI special agent.  And of course, Casey Jordan joins us now. And she is a criminologist. Thank you,  guys, so much for joining us. As I am sitting here tonight reporting this, and  you are listening some of you on the panel say, no, you don't believe it is  terrorism that it doesn't point to that. And you say all signs point to it. Why  is that?   
HARRY HOUCK, RETIRED NEW YORK POLICE DETECTIVE: It looks that way because the attack was well planned, OK? We're going in there, we've got heavy weapons.  We've got bullet-proof vests. They go in.       
LEMON: Man and woman.  
HOUCK: man and woman. Well, at the time we thought it was three shooters, you know. They go in.   
LEMON: Hang on, Harry, I just want to tell you this, as we are waiting on the Mayor of San Bernardino. The mayor is going to speak very shortly and if he  does, we'll have to interrupt. There is a podium; as soon as he steps to the mic  we will get to the mayor. Sorry. Continue.   
HOUCK: Yes. They run in there and stay -- I don't know how long they stay in there but it was long enough that they get away without the police getting to  them. All right. So, we've got -- we've got a great plan going in, going out,  shooting and getting away. Now...       
LEMON: The Mayor of San Bernardino speaking now. Carey Davis. Let's listen.      
CAREY DAVIS, SAN BERNARDINO MAYOR: A tragic incident. Our city is suffering from the effects of those who decided to express themselves in a violent fashion. Our  community is coming together to deal with the situation. Our Police Department,  our Sheriff's Department, the Fire Department, the ATF, the FBI, our probation.  They all have done an excellent job of responding as quickly as they could.    We want to thank those who have supported those that have been gathering at the  Hernandez Center. There has been a great outpouring of support and a great  outpouring of assistance that has been offered to our community.    Senator Feinstein contacted me today. We know that the President has been  monitoring the situation and we know that our governor is also very concerned.  We appreciate their outpouring of support for our community.    At the Hernandez Center where many of those families were gathering we had an  awful lot of our clergy that was providing support and was aiding those families  that were suffering. It's our intent to try to make sure that the community  knows that, we, as a city, will support and do all we can for the victims of  this violent crime.    We will not be making any statements relative to any of the details. All of  those details will be left up to our police department. They will be reporting.  As you know they have in the past already had several press conferences. They  will continue to keep the community apprised of any events that take place in  any additional information.    Additionally, we have been speaking about the possibility of hoping to  coordinate and support a vigil in our community. We're not exactly sure where  that will be over the next day or so. We will be planning that together with our  clergy to find an appropriate venue and to also make sure that those people who  would like to attend are made aware of that.    At this time, I want to thank again, our P.D, I want to thank all of those  agencies that responded as quickly as they could. Our city council, our city  attorney, our city manager, our communications director have all done exemplary  jobs of being on board with making sure that the communication that we give to  the community is accurate.    And as I said earlier, we will not disclose any information other than that is  disclosed by the Police Department as it relates to the investigation that's  going on. It is an active investigation and we will leave that effort up to our  Police Department.    At this time if there are any questions we will entertain a few questions.       
 DAVIS: The council did come together to discuss what actions we thought we should be taking together as a council to be able to plan for the  days ahead.       
DAVIS: That was a closed session meeting.      
DAVIS: Again, it was a closed session meeting and so that cannot be assess. What I'm discussing now with you are some of the details that did come out of that  that are disclosable.       
DAVIS: We appreciate that question. One of the concerns that we have is to make sure that people do know that the city still is on alert. The P.D. are on full  force. They have brought in all the resources that they can. They will continue  on the 12-hour, 12-hour shift where they will be bringing in people as they need  to.    As you the surrounding communities have also provided aid. So, calls for service  will still be responded to. And the other surrounding communities, as you know,  are also impacted by this. They are also taking a heightened level of security  and also are -- many of our other facilities currently have been in contact with  us.    We've asked them to make sure that they take whatever precautions are necessary  and follow any protocols for those institutions. Cal State of San Bernardino, I  have been in touch with them, I've been in touch with our superintendent of  schools. I've been in touch with our president of San Bernardino Valley College.    And so, we coordinate our efforts to make sure that they keep their staff and  their students safe.       
DAVIS: There have been areas that have been released, you're correct. And so, the P.D. will continue to monitor that and they will let us know when those  areas. City hall is no longer on lockdown, it previously was. Many of the  facilities were on lockdown earlier today.       
DAVIS: I think that our community needs to continue to stay cautious. But additionally, I'm very confident that our police department and our public  safety is doing a great job and making sure that they have addressed the  situation. They will continue to report out.    And I would suggest you stay tuned to those reports, so that you are able to  then know what would be the right protocols individually and as a community that  we take. And it's important to stay alert and to be cognizant of the information  that does come out.    It's also important though, not to panic. It's not a time for us to become  angry, but yet, to also realize that there is a need to be very cautious and to  be at a heightened level of alert for our -- for the safety of our community but  not just our community.    As we stand in the world today, with those things that are taking place all  communities need to be on alert. This is a shocking event for our community. We  certainly are very fortunate that we have such a trained -- well-trained Police  Department. Our sheriff's department that went into action and they put a  massive effort out at trying to alleviate the problem that they were confronted  with.       
DAVIS: I was at a meeting of the Sandbag board and about 11.25, I was notified of the active shooter involvement, and at that time I left that meeting  immediately and came back to city hall to coordinate with our police department  and public safety.       
DAVIS: Well, the IRC has a number of organizations that meet in that building. The event that where the incident took place today, as you know, as we  understand it, was a Christmas party.    So, there wasn't anything that was taking place as far as a conference at that  particular time. That's my understanding. That it was a Christmas party. A  terrible, terrible event to take place on a holiday event like that.       
DAVIS: Absolutely. There is a lot that takes place there. We have behavioral health issues that are going on there. They provide some services. And -- but  any venue that you would have to take place would be a tragedy. And it's  unfortunate that -- that our community was the target. Thank you.       
 LEMON: That's the Mayor of San Bernardino, California, Carey Davis. Mr. Davis will join us live on CNN in just moments.    But I want to bring my experts back in now. But I want to say this, the mayor  speaking for his community but also for every community around the country, he  said stay alert and be cautious. That's good advice for everyone.    Again, I think the news that came out about this is that the city is still on  alert. City hall no longer on lockdown, but basically this is pro-forma to thank  the people who were involved in this, who were helping to keep everyone safe and  who save some lives they are today.    And also, to tell the residents where they can go for help. We were talking  about your assessment of the situation, Harry Houck, as before we went to the  mayor.       
HOUCK: Well, I said.  
LEMON: We want to be very careful because we don't know what this is.  
HOUCK: We don't know. And I could be wrong. The fact that -- what is really making me look like this might be a possible terrorist attack is the role of the  FBI here. The FBI has taken virtually this whole show over here.   
LEMON: But then the FBI have in every mass shooting that we had, Sandy Hook, we have in Aurora, the FBI has a big role.   
HOUCK: Yes, they do. But you could see the presence of the FBI here. It's unbelievable. The fact that when they had the last presser, the FBI came on and  they ask them if it was a terrorist attack. He had stated that, you know, well,  we don't want to go that way right now.    But he indicated the way he -- he spoke that this was probably a terrorist  attack. And that's -- and that's what's got me thinking that this is what it  probably is.    The fact is the way the attack occurred, the fact that, you know, it was well  planned, they got away quickly. That doesn't say it's a terrorist attack. To me,  what says a terrorist attack is the FBI's role right now 
. LEMON: OK. And again,this is what experts do. They sit around and they try to figure out exactly what motivations are, they assess the situation. And that's what we're doing here,  what they would be doing -- what they would be doing at, you know, at more  intense level.    Jonathan Gilliam, you're a CNN military analyst and a former FBI special agent.  Talk to me.   
JONATHAN GILLIAM, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, first of, I think this name, this particular name, that's been floated over social media came out and was reported  over a police radio. And that's how it got on social media.       
LEMON: We're not saying it, we're not saying the name.  
GILLIAM: We're not saying the name. However, what's interesting about that name is the fact that it's reported that people recognized -- I'm seeing reports that  people recognize an individual that was acting nervous, left, and then came  back.    So, I think this just goes to show how quickly the information got to police and  that's probably why because of good police work and quick Intel they were able  to get to these individuals before they got away or got somewhere else or got  home.    I think there is clear evidence that we're starting to see here that cops knew  quickly who this probably was because that's -- they started moving toward this  house which they are at this residence now.    But social media it's amazing how quickly social media starting to pick up on  things now, and that is a big help for community awareness. You know, this stuff  spreads rapidly. So, people can be aware before law enforcement even reports it  on television.   
LEMON: But I also want to say that I was listening to the scanner traffic earlier from the San Bernardino Police Department. And you heard names. But  again, that is just scanner traffic, that is rumor that has not been confirmed  by any law enforcement agency or any law enforcement authority.   
GILLIAM: Correct.  
LEMON: I want to get now to Jim Maxwell, Philadelphia retired special agent and an FBI consultant. This is right in your daily week; this is right in your wheel  house. When you look at the situation of what's happening in Redlands right now  at this home, what took place today at the center, the shootout that happened on  the street, where does this take you?   
JIM MAXWELL, RETIRED PHILADELPHIA FBI AGENT: Well, you know, it does lean toward some sort of terrorist act. But until the authorities can fully vet these two  individuals and delve into their pedigree we're merely speculating at this  point. But we have to look at everything. Who are these people and do they have  a direct connection to the location where this act took place? The weapons they  obtained, the ATF tracing out these weapons. How long have they been in the  country if or are they U.S. citizens. All those questions have to be asked. And  the search of the apartment...       
LEMON: We were told they are U.S. citizens. We're told they are U.S. citizens that at least...   
MAXWELL: OK. If they are U.S. citizens, are they naturalized U.S. citizens, were they born here? Those questions have to be asked.       
LEMON: At least the name of the person that got them, that the person that brought them to the home is a U.S. citizen.   
MAXWELL: Right.  
LEMON: Go ahead.  
MAXWELL: Right. But this is -- this is a huge undertaking. We're setting up a tactical operations command. We're setting up a command post where tons of  information is coming in at a huge rate. And you need a lot of personnel to sort  out these leads to decide what needs to be done first.     This apartment, the computers, the phones, any types of the records  left there, any type of equipment left there will tell us a lot about how this  thing was planned and whether or not they had any help.    So, this is a -- this is quite an undertaking and it's something that can't be  done in between the commercials.   
LEMON: Casey Jordan...  
MAXWELL: So, you have to give the authorities.  
LEMON: Casey Jordan, there is a reason that I saved you for last. Casey Jordan is sitting here on set with me. She is a criminologist, she taking copious  notes. You would urge everyone at this point to take a step back, is that  correct? Do you necessarily think that this leads in any one direction?   
CASEY JORDAN, CRIMINOLOGIST: No. And it's interesting to what Harry Houck heard from our FBI representative, was leaning towards terrorism. Well, my take on the  exact same statement was that he thought it was terrorism but he's looking in a  new direction because they don't think it's terrorism.    So, I have a theory and, you know, I don't hoarseness race. I don't mind if I  turn out to be wrong. From a psychological and criminological perspective, this  is most likely a disgruntled employee or a disgruntled constituent.   
LEMON: But how does a disgruntled employee or constituent get one other maybe two or three more who knows how many other people to go along with that plan.   
JORDAN: So, we have one. We have one. And when it was three, I was far more likely to believe it was terrorism.   
LEMON: We have two.  
JORDAN: Now we have two.  
LEMON: Yes.  
JORDAN: I'm far more likely to think it's a master disciple, a girlfriend of a disgruntled employee who would do anything for him, including getting fatigues  out of eBay and going to the shooting range and maybe playing, you know, I don't  know what I'd call of duty with him all day long.    And the point is, I think we underestimate how easy it is, a, for people to get  the guns, b, for people to watch YouTube and get the training, and, c, for them  to hold a grudge that blossoms and grows and then could be inspired by Paris but  not caused by an extremist ideology.   
LEMON: All right. I want everyone to stand by because as we are on the air tonight, there is a third person in custody. Not sure if they are involved in  this. There is also a search going on of a home where they are believe -- that  police believe an explosive device might be in that home in Redlands,  California.    Those are the live pictures right now coming from California. That is the story  today. Investigators still on the scene. A press conference we were told earlier  should happen within the next hour or so.    The investigators desperately searching for clues tonight in this mass shooting,  14 dead, 17 injured. Quick break. We're back right after that.       
LEMON: Back now with the breaking news here on NBC look at -- so here on -- excuse me, on CNN. You are looking at live pictures that are coming in now from  our affiliate, KABC in Redlands, California.    Fourteen people in California killed in that mass shooting. Police are now  executing a warrant trying to figure out exactly what happened at this home. The  ATF on the scene with a robot, a battering ram trying to get into this home to  see if there are explosive devices inside of that home.    Joining me now to discuss this is psychiatrist Stephen Seager, co- producer of  "Shattered Families, a Collapse of America's Mental Health System." As you look  at this and you listen to the information we've had from our experts and from  the officials on the scene, what do you make of the people involved in this and  what might be behind it, doctor?   
STEPHEN SEAGER, PSYCHIATRIST: Well, I agree with your last guest. My overarching thing is I wish this would all stop. But if this could easily have been done by  mentally ill people. I work with these kinds of people who's done mass shootings  and this is a kind of thing they would do.    In other words, someone gets disgruntled. They -- if you think about it they  went and shot up a meeting then they ran away and went home. And they just kind  of sat there and waited for the police to show up and then the police shot them    They were wearing fatigues, which automatically kind of makes them visible. I  think this is certainly could be something what your guest said was a  master/disciple relationship. In psychiatry that's called the, where  you just need one mentally ill person who kind of gets a susceptible other  person involved and it could easily be two or three people in a.    So, this is not entirely without the realm of possibility. What I'm interested  to hear is what the neighbors have to say. Usually the neighbors will go out and  say, yes, these guys lived there, they were odd. Or, yes, they were from the  Middle East.    Or somebody must have seen these guys or known them. But the whole story doesn't  hang right. And I agree I have heard a couple of guests say that this whole  thing about running away and then just going home, I just don't think that. That  is something a mentally ill person or I don't think that's really vey  well-planned.   
LEMON: Casey Jordan is in agreement with you here.      
JORDAN: I think that if they returned it was to wallow in it.  
SEAGER: And I agree.  
JORDAN: They wanted to see the carnage...  
SEAGER: Is that they want to see on CNN.  
JORDAN: Exactly. They wanted to get...      
SEAGER: Exactly what they would do. That's 100 percent right.  
LEMON: But people were saying if this were terror, right, wouldn't they hit some bigger place like a mall or some sort of shopping center or something?   
JORDAN: I'm not sure. SEAGER: Yes, why would anyone pick...      
LEMON: Dr. Seager.  
SEAGER: Yes, why would one anyone pick a Christmas party at a regional center unless they had somebody who they messed with their disability payment or  someone who has disgruntled? This wasn't an accident. Why would you send  somebody in first, have them to get in a fight, leave, then go back and shoot  the place up. The story just doesn't hang together for a mastermind.   
HOUCK: But that doesn't make sense.  
SEAGER: It doesn't make sense at all to me. It doesn't.  
LEMON: I want to get now to Mr. Swecker, back with Mr. Swecker, as we were watching this, we're saying why would someone, Chris Swecker, why would someone,  you know, pick this sort of facility rather than a bigger facility, shopping  center, mall, stadium?   
SWECKER: The 49ers game? Well, I think the obvious answer is that there is some connection to that facility, some personal connection to that facility or  someone that works there. And you know, I've heard the discussion here and I  credit both of them that for what they're saying.    I think that this type of individual is very easily recruited via the internet.  We've seen it happen before; we're going to see it happen again. They can be  angry, bitter, and then you just give them that, you know, you sort of provide  the catalyst to spring into action.    So, I think this could be both. It could be both, you know, a grudge, a personal  grudge, and inspired at the same time. So, let's -- we'll have to see what the  facts say as Dave Bowditch said, let's just let the facts take us where it will  take us.   
LEMON: Dr. Seager, we are seeing so many mass shootings and it seems it's happening more frequently. Are more people willing to commit a crime like this?  I mean, what is causing this?   
SEAGER: I think that from my point of view, this is the fifth time I've been here since September. It's untreated mental illness is the American way. It's  people who are basically paranoid, delusional, who have some sort of big thing,  big grudge and that it's easy to get guns. It's simple. They amass an arsenal.    They're not this kind...   
LEMON: Thanks.  
SEAGER: You know, it's not this kind of foil hat schizophrenics; they're just guys that are untreated. And I think that's the issue. It's from my point of  view, it's untreated mental illness is the problem. And it's so easy to get  guns. But in America -- I come from Utah and I just don't think that's going to  happen, any gun control.   
 LEMON: If this is untreated mental illness this is far afield from what you believe is with it, Jonathan Gilliam.   
GILLIAM: Well, I'm trying to and I've been saying this all day. I'm trying not to completely label this one way or another. I thing we can look at the facts  and we can clearly see that this was a targeted attack.    They definitely -- whoever did this, whether it was terrorism or it was people  who have a vendetta against work, this was targeted against that facility.    What's interesting about this, though, this was not a theater. This was a  theater where people brought that threat to them. If this guy was an employee,  he wasn't necessarily an employee of the facility of the people in the theater.   
LEMON: All right. Stand by, everyone. When we come right back, we'll have more on our breaking news. Two suspects dead after a mass shooting in San Bernardino.  We're expecting a news conference tonight.    We're going to bring that to you the moment it happens right here on CNN.   
LEMON: Hello, everyone. Eleven p.m. on the East Coast, 8 p.m. in San Bernardino.    That's where our breaking news is happening. Two suspects dead after  the worst mass shooting since Sandy Hook. We're waiting a news conference  tonight and we're going to bring that to you the moment it happens.    This is CNN Tonight. I'm Don Lemon.   
