    
HIGHLIGHT: Police found smashed cell phones near crime scene and missing hard drive from suspect's computers. Two gunmen opened fire during holiday party,  killing 14 and injuring 17 people. Friends and boyfriends mourning those who  perished during the attack. Prompt response by first responders save many more  lives during San Bernardino shooting. Law enforcement officials say they have  recovered two smashed cell phones from a garbage can near the crime scene and  they have also recovered a computer but the hard drive had actually been  removed, and sources say the gunman, Syed Rezwan Farook, was apparently  radicalized and had been in touch with a number of people under investigation by  the FBI for international terrorism, and identifying what motivated this couple  has already taken investigators in two directions, globally, in search of any  wider terror ties and, locally, to those who knew them and are now speaking out.  U.S. President Barack Obama honored the shooting victims during the annual tree  lighting ceremony in Washington on Thursday, and despite it being a joyous  occasion, there were some somber moments as President Obama honored those who  lost their lives, and in their first appearances since Wednesday's shooting,  Republican presidential candidates expressed condolences to the victim's  families and the survivors, and while President Obama has hesitated in calling  the shooting terrorism, some GOP candidates did not hold back. Hours before  Wednesday's shooting, a group of doctors delivered a petition to Congress asking  them to lift restrictions on gun violence research in the U.S., and supporters  say this latest attack underscores an urgency for objective medical  perspectives. Syed Rezwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, killed 14 people  at that conference center on Wednesday and they were killed a few hours later in  a shootout with police, and the chaos began at 11:00 a.m. local time and it  would continue for hours, and a look at the minute by minute response by police.       
 ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello, and thank you for joining us. I am Isha Sesay in Los Angeles where it is 10:00 here on the U.S.  West Coast.   
JOHN VAUSE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I'm John Vause in San Bernardino, California. We'd like to welcome our viewers in the United States and around the  world. You're watching CNN's breaking coverage of that mass shooting at a  California conference center and we will begin with new details about the man  and the woman who carried out that deadly shooting.    Sources say Syed Rizwan Farook was apparently radicalized and have been touch  with a number of people under the investigation by the FBI for international  terrorism. Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, killed 14 people at a conference  center on Wednesday.    Lieutenant Mike Madden was one of the first to arrive on the scene.       
LT. MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA POLICE: It was unspeakable. The carnage that we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and  unfortunately already dead. And the pure panic on the face of those individuals  that were still in need and needing to be safe. We asked -- we got as many  people out as quickly as we could.       
VAUSE: Investigators say the heavily armed couple fired between 65 and 75 rounds at the conference center. They were killed a few hours later in a shootout with  police.    Investigators have also found two pipe bombs and a trove of ammunition at the  couple's home not far from here in the city of Redlands.    CNN's justice correspondent Pamela Brown has more.       
PAMELA BROWN, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: We've learned from law enforcement sources that the couple's two cell phones apparently, these cell phones  belonging to them, found in a trash bin near one of the crime scenes. These cell  phones had been damaged. And investigators believe the couple was trying to hide  their tracks and make it impossible for investigators to be able to see what was  on their cell phones.    We're told, though, that the FBI is working to retrieve the information on their  phones. And also we've learned that the couple's hard drive, belonging to their  computer, is nowhere to be found. So there has been a subpoena issued to the big  providers to get the contents from their computer. And investigators are hoping  whatever is retrieved will shed light on a possible motive.    This case has been somewhat puzzling to investigators. Because as one person  said, it doesn't fit neatly into a box. It's unclear if this is in fact  terrorism or if it is a work place dispute or a blend of the two.    I will tell you, sources I've spoken with who have analyzed the bombs that were  found say that they don't match any extremist recipe. That it appears the  shooters didn't follow a specific recipe from "Inspire" magazine which we know  is run by al Qaeda or recipes from ISIS. There's a lot of mystery here. We know  the FBI has been investigating or I should say interviewing the family members  of the shooters and they have been very cooperative, I'm told. And they say that  they completely shocked that from their viewpoint this couple did not seem  radicalized at all. Certainly still a lot to learn here.    Pamela Brown, CNN, San Bernardino.       
VAUSE: CNN's military analyst Lieutenant Colonel Rick Francona is with me right now in San Bernardino.    So, Colonel, when we look at some of the tactics which were used in this attack,  some of them are very similar to the tactics which ISIS has used in the past.   
LT. COL. RICK FRANCONA, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: And we've seen this kind of tactics in Paris, for example, you know, the use of multiple shooters, combining  high explosives with rifle fire. Going in to a target, spraying the target,  killing as many people quickly as fast as you can and then being prepared to  move out of the area very quickly to another area. We saw sort of a hybrid of  that in Paris where some of them stayed in place. Others moved on to other  targets. So we're not quite sure what was happening here. I believe they were  moving on to another target.   
VAUSE: OK. So if we look at -- I guess for want of a better term, what worked for them and what didn't work for them. They essentially sprayed the room, 75  shots, they killed 14 people wounded 20, but then the explosives didn't  detonate 
. FRANCONA: Yes. Well, it shows that they planned. The planning wasfairly well done. And if you look at what they may have been planning to do that was probably well thought out. It was the execution of it that started to fall  apart and it started to fall apart fairly quickly and fairly rapidly.   
VAUSE: Exactly. Yes, when the police moved in. So we had a situation, though, where it looked as if they've done a lot of planning. They had some training but  not a lot of training to carry it out. Because clearly the Paris attack was a  lot more effective than this one in terms of ISIS.   
FRANCONA: A larger scale.  
VAUSE: Yes.  
FRANCONA: Here you've got two people operating pretty much independently. And we still don't know yet how much support they had, how much training they had from  outside. Did they do this all on their own, all self-training? You know, the  AR-15 is not an intuitive weapon. It requires a little bit of training but you  can get that off the Internet.     But these explosives, you don't want to be building these things  without some sort of a hand-on experience, someone showing you how to do this.  Did they make high explosives? Did they -- someone provide them to them? So  there's a whole lot of questions we don't yet have answers to.   
VAUSE: And this is one of the reasons why this is so hard to pin down and defining it as actually being terrorism because we have to stress at this point  the FBI is not willing to go there.   
FRANCONA: Well, because, you know, there's a lot of work place issues here. Remember, they picked a target that dealt with people that he worked with. He  knew they were going to be at this off site. So this is a soft target. He came  in early. I think he was doing reconnaissance, ingress,, what kind  of security was there, how long a police response might be. And he used all that  two hours later when he came back and conducted the attack.   
VAUSE: And we talked about this before. So the frame of mind when he goes in there, knowing this attack is about to happen, hyped up, ready for a fight,  which would explain why there was that disagreement, I guess.   
FRANCONA: Whether that was feigned or not, we don't know.  
VAUSE: In some way. Right. OK.  
FRANCONA: I don't think this was a spur of the moment attack. I think he knew going in there that they were going to come back and attack. The argument may  have been feigned but he wanted to get in there, get the lay of the land and see  what they were going to have to do, get out, come back two hours later and  actually conduct that attack. That part of it was actually well done 
. VAUSE: OK.There was a fire alarm which was set off.  
FRANCONA: Yes.  
VAUSE: We don't know by them or by somebody else but obviously adding to the confusion of the moment. A lot of people also are talking about the fact that  there was a woman involved in this. And again, you know, I have read, I have  heard that at least in the past ISIS, al Qaeda, not very pleased with women  being involved in these kinds of attacks.   
FRANCONA: I guess if you'd call it core al Qaeda, core ISIS in Iraq and Syria with ISIS we find that not to be the case.   
VAUSE: Yes.  
FRANCONA: But as you move further out, go into Europe, and now in the United States you find they're willing to -- and we've seen these Islamist groups use  women quite effectively before, just it comes to mind where they used a suicide  bomber.   
VAUSE: And in Palestine they're beingsuicide bombers often as well.  
FRANCONA: Exactly.  
VAUSE: There is also the question of radicalization. Our sources are saying that Farook was radicalized.   
FRANCONA: Right.  
VAUSE: And then this begs the question, who was leading whom in the radicalization? Was it the wife? Was it the husband? Where do we go with that  one?   
FRANCONA: Hard to say. We don't know yet. It could have been her. Remember, you know, there are madrazas in Pakistan that deal specifically with women. All  funded, you know, by -- they're well funded. So we don't know if it was her. But  generally you find that not to be the case.   
VAUSE: It's usually the male in the relationship.  
FRANCONA: Exactly. And of course the pilgrimage, his pilgrimage in 2013 seems to be the turning point.   
VAUSE: Right.  
FRANCONA: Because that's a deeply moving experience for any Muslim. He came back much more devout than he went.   
VAUSE: OK. Colonel, good to peak with you. Thank you for being with us. Appreciate it.    While investigators search for a motive in that shooting rampage the community  is now taking some time to heal. The largest mosque in San Bernardino County  held a prayer vigil for victims on Thursday night. Muslim leaders have condemned  the massacre and hundreds gathered for a candlelight vigil at a stadium right  here in San Bernardino. And Poppy Harlow was there.   
POPPY HARLOW, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The opening words of the prayer read here tonight, John, we are challenged, but we are not hopeless, talking about this  community, all of the people that have come together tonight holding candles,  listening to beautiful music, trying to reflect on what their community has gone  through in just the last two days. It is unfathomable to everyone here. The  mayor talking about his phone call with President Obama this morning.    And when you look around, all of these people, young and old, every race and  religion represented, they have a different story. They're here all for a  different reason but they are here and they stand together. A young woman,  Christina, who I spoke with, told me that she lost two friends, two friends  murdered yesterday. A third shot in the head but survived. It's amazing one of  her friends who was murdered is a father of six. Six children. His name Mike  Wertzle. She said she's here for him, for everyone who perished, for everyone  who was injured.    Another young man sitting next to me, Gustavo, told me he didn't know anyone who  died but he is here because he said he is angry and he said it is hard to find  logic in this. Why did this happen? How could this happen. And what has really  struck me here tonight are all the children. So many parents have brought their  young, young children here tonight.    And I asked one mother of five, why did you bring your children? How do you  explain this to them? And she had her 4-year-old sitting next to her. And she  said to me, I can't explain it to them, but they watch the news. They see what  is happening. I try to give them answers as best I can. But perhaps it's because  they saw the worst of humanity play out here yesterday and tonight at this vigil  the best of humanity coming together, standing together, being together -- John.   
VAUSE: Meanwhile, the coroner has released the names of 14 people who were killed. Among them, 52-year-old Nicholas Thalasinos. He was an employee at the  County Environmental Health Department.     Forty-year-old Robert Adams, husband and the father of a 20-month-old  daughter. His family says they were planning their first trip to Disneyland.  45-year-old Shannon Johnson from Los Angeles. Police say of the 14 people  killed, 12 were county employees. There were about 80 people at that party when  the shooting happened. And inside that scene it was truly horrific.    CNN's Paul Vercammen joins us now live with more on that. Because, Paul, we are  now hearing for the first time from the police officer who arrived on the scene,  the first one to move into that room.   
PAUL VERCAMMEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, John, that was Lieutenant Mike Madden. He described that he mainly, after 24 years, has primarily a desk job. He was  headed for lunch when the call went out. And when Madden arrived, when he first  stepped inside, he described the smell of gunpowder, the wailing of the injured.  Fire alarms going off. And all sorts of sprinklers going off as well.    John, it was absolutely terrifying. Let's listen to it in his words when he got  that call for so many casualties at the center behind me.       
MADDEN: As we made our way around to the east side, it was immediately evident that the reports that we were getting were 100 percent true. There were victims  who were clearly -- obviously deceased outside of the conference room. The  situation was surreal. It was something that I don't think, again, we prepare  for and they try to -- an active shooter, we talk about sensory overload. They  just try to throw everything at you to prepare you for dealing with that. What  you're seeing, what you're hearing, what you're smelling, and it was all of that  and more.       
VERCAMMEN: Madden also said they have secured the scene to the best of his knowledge. They're not sure if the shooters are hiding.    You now have many other people who are attending that party who are afraid to  come forward with Madden to be taken out of the building. And he said he had to  coax them and explain to them, please, no, we are police officers. We are not  dressed this way. This isn't some sort of ruse. And finally when he convinced  the first person that they were indeed law enforcement from here in San  Bernardino. The flood gate just opened and dozens and dozens filed out of that  building amid that scene of the sprinklers going off and the fire alarms and the  people wailing and they pulled them out to safety -- John.   
VAUSE: Yes, and also, there was that incredible moment caught on video with one police officer reassuring the people in that room, I'll take a bullet for you.  Just trying to get the people out to safety. It is impossible to imagine what it  must have been like.    But we're also learning, Paul, from authorities that there does seem to be some  kind of personal connection to everybody who was in that room and the shooters.   
VERCAMMEN: Yes. And you are articulating earlier that they were all employees with the county. This started as a training exercise, and it transisted to a  holiday party. And as Madden had described it, it was just filled with a  Christmas tree and ornaments and this sort of thing. It had all the feel of  that. In the end, the victims, 12 of the dead, also worked for the county. And  18 of the 21 injured worked for the county.    So it's clear that Farook had a connection with many of them. And in fact, he  probably worked side by side with a lot of them -- John.   
VAUSE: OK. Paul, thank you. Paul Vercammen live for us this hour. We appreciate the update, Paul.    You are watching CNN's breaking news coverage of the shooting here in Southern  California. Time for a short break. And much more from here in San Bernardino  when we come back.   
SESAY: Plus a former FBI agent joins me here in studio to talk about the deadly shooting and why authorities didn't pick up on the gunman even though he was in  contact with suspected terrorists.           
 SESAY: You are watching CNN's breaking coverage of a shooting massacre here in California. I'm Isha Sesay in Los Angeles.   
VAUSE: I'm John Vause in San Bernardino, California. Authorities here in San Bernardino believe a mix of workplace grievance and terrorism may have been  behind Wednesday's massacre. They say Syed Rizwan Farook was in touch with a  number of people under investigation by the FBI for international terrorism.    Officials are also looking into his travels to Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. But  two government officials say they did not raise any red flags. Meantime,  authorities say Farook and his wife were prepared for another attack. They found  hundreds of rounds of ammunition in the couple's rented SUV and a dozen pipe  bombs in their home.    Well, joining me now is Brian Levin. He is the director at the Center for the  Study of Hate and Extremism, also a former NYPD cop.    So, Brian, let's just start with the difference in a mass shooting, why a  two-person shooting is different in terms of motive to a one- person shooting?   
BRIAN LEVIN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF HATE AND EXTREMISM: Yes, usually when we have a lone actor there is oftentimes some kind of idiosyncratic bent here. When  you have a conspiracy going, then you have to get two people in on an ideology  usually or some particular grievance. One thing that's important. Irrespective  of the motive, we see a grievance, whether it's ideological or uniquely  personal. And that's something that we're going to be looking at with regard to  this case as well.   
VAUSE: OK. So that then brings us to this hybrid theory that everybody is working in.   
LEVIN: Yes.  
VAUSE: At the moment. Is it terrorism? Is it a grievance? Is it somehow mixed in together? How would it be mixed in together?   
LEVIN: Great question. And it's exactly what I tell law enforcement when I train them. What I told Congress just several weeks ago. Particularly in this  splintered sociopolitical landscape we're in. People are a mixture of motives.  They might have a uniquely personal anger and hatred but it can be tied and  broaden to an ideological one, too, that justifies and validates their  frustrations. In a kind of scapegoating.     So it's not unusual at all. We saw a beheading back in Oklahoma, for  instance, in 2014.   
VAUSE: Yes.  
LEVIN: We also saw an attack in France where a workplace grievance turned into an ideological attack as well.   
VAUSE: Yes. People drive by different issues, I guess. We're talking about -- we've been talking about this trip that he made to Saudi Arabia, and also to  Pakistan. I find it unusual that officials say that didn't raise any red flags.  Why would that be?   
LEVIN: Well, as we know in Islam there are five pillars of faith.  
VAUSE: Yes.  
LEVIN: And one of them, if you can do it at least once in your lifetime.  
VAUSE: Hajj. Yes.  
LEVIN: To do Hajj to Mecca. So that wouldn't in and of itself be something. With regard to Pakistan, well, that's where his wife is from.   
VAUSE: Right.  
LEVIN: That being said, there is an extremist footprint impact, to be sure. Interestingly enough, that's more an al Qaeda-based extremism, not so much ISIS.   
VAUSE: ISIS doesn't have a reach in Pakistan, well, not much.  
LEVIN: Not much, no. Libya, Iraq, Syria, that's where ISIS is big. We're also seeing them as you know in the Sinai.   
VAUSE: One thing which I find interesting, very quickly, the amount of ammunition which they stockpiled. That's thousands and thousands of dollars of  ammunition. They had a bomb-making lab in their home. How can they keep this  secret from everyone around them?   
LEVIN: That's surprising to me. You know, my gut feeling, and again as we say, let the law enforcement lead takes you, not speculation.   
VAUSE: Right.  
LEVIN: But if I had to guess, what's going on here, it seems to me they got radicalized, perhaps self-radicalized or with some peers, but they don't strike  me as overly professional.   
VAUSE: Right.  
LEVIN: They look like they kind of half planned and half executed. This could have been a lot worse and the bombs could have been used in different attacks.  It just seems to me if it is ideological.   
VAUSE: Yes.  
LEVIN: Indirectly influenced by these hierarchical extremists, and not directly. They're using more professional.   
VAUSE: OK, Brian, we shall leave it there. Thank you for coming to us here and talking to us about this. We appreciate your insights and your expertise. Thank  you.   
LEVIN: Thank you so much for having me.  
VAUSE: Take care.   We'll have much more from here in San Bernardino in just a few moments. But  first let's go back to Isha in Los Angeles.   
SESAY: Thank you, John.   Well, for more on the deadly shooting I'm joined by a former FBI special agent,  Bobby Chacon.    Bobby, thank you again for being with us. This is all so complicated and there  is so much we still don't know. But one of the things that a lot of people are  focused on is the fact that it's already been revealed that Farook was in  contact with individuals who are being investigated for international terrorism  by the FBI. And yet the FBI says Farook and his wife weren't on their radar. Is  this a case of them dropping the ball here? I mean, how should we read this?   
BOBBY CHACON, FORMER FBI SPECIAL AGENT: I don't think so. I think what you have -- what we have to look at and what has to be determined is, number one, he was  a U.S. citizen. So the foreign -- the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that  allows us to basically surveil electronically U.S. citizens comes into play. So  you would have -- we'd have to have some kind of probable cause to go up on  devices that he might be operating to find out.    Second of all, you know, when you say these other individuals were the subject  of FBI investigations, I think that we have to look at that closely. If they  were subjects of the investigation or they just were known as possible overseas  targets. So I think that it is a little too early to tell if any red flags were  missed. I think that those things have to be run out us because he was a U.S.  citizen, born and raised in the U.S., he would have certain rights and we would  have to -- the FBI would have to go through certain procedures to surveil him  electronically.    And I think the second piece that has to be looked at is who exactly these  people were, to what level they were under investigation. If these were just  names on a list or if they were actively subjects of an investigation, that's  yet to be determined.   
SESAY: So we're hearing that a couple of cell phones were found smashed. We're hearing that a computer was found without the hard drive which leads people  think that there was an attempt to discard it, hide it.   
CHACON: Sure.  
SESAY: How difficult will it be to retrieve information from devices that they've attempted to wipe or destroy?   
CHACON: You know, we have the best of the best working nearby in our regional computer forensics lab, the RCFL down in Orange County that the FBI set up. It's  run by state, local and federal partners. And they have the best computer  forensic examiners in the business there, at our regional computer forensic  labs. So I think the RCFL will probably hopefully be on the case. I think a lot  of state and local agencies in this area also have very, very good computer  forensic people. If it's possible at all to obtain any information from those  devices they will get it.   
SESAY: So let me ask you this, the pipe bombs that were found in the home, those kind of -- those kind of items, those kind of devices, if you will, is it  something that you could -- can we honestly say that this man and his wife sat  at home, logged onto the Internet and found the instructions to build? Or,  again, we're trying to build this picture, did they have help that taught them  how to do this?   
 CHACON: Yes, I think it's both. I think that unfortunately in this day and age you can actually get on the Internet and see some of these things. I  think also they probably did have some help simply because of the volume of  these devices that were found. Now the effectiveness of the devices, I don't  know. I mean, I looked at the pictures, and some of these devices are very  similar to devices that I came across when I was working drug gangs in New York  City in the late '80s and early '90s.    So I don't think there's a high level of sophistication with these items. I  think they have been around a long time. A single piece of threaded pipe at both  ends with caps, that's a very basic device, it's not very sophisticated. Of  course the effectiveness of them is unknown. I don't know that these were very  effective devices that they built.   
SESAY: Bobby, thank you.  
CHACON: Thanks.  
SESAY: Thanks for the insight.   Well, we're going to go back to John in San Bernardino in just a minute. And  we'll hear from a man who shared a cubicle with the gunman for the past three  years.    This is CNN NEWSROOM, live from Los Angeles.   
SESAY: You are watching CNN's breaking coverage of a mass shooting at a conference center here in California. I'm Isha Sesay in Los Angeles 
. VAUSE: AndI'm John Vause in San Bernardino.    Law enforcement officials say they have recovered two smashed cell  phones from a garbage can near the crime scene. And they have also recovered a  computer but the hard drive had actually been removed. Sources say the gunman,  Syed Rezwan Farook, was apparently radicalized and had been in touch with a  number of people under investigation by the FBI for international terrorism.    Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, they killed 14 people at a conference  center on Wednesday. They were killed a few hours later in a shootout with  police. Investigators say they found 12 pipe bombs and a trove of ammunition at  their home. The couple met in 2013 when Farook travelled to Saudi Arabia.    Identifying what motivated this couple has already taken investigators in two  directions, globally, in search of any wider terror ties and, locally, to those  who knew them and are now speaking out.    We get more on that from CNN's Kyung Lah.           
KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Just minutes before the killers opened fire on the holiday party, Patrick Baccari left the use the bathroom when  the attack started.   
PATRICK BACCARI, CONFERENCE ATTENDEE: I thought somebody booby trapped the towel dispenser because I was being pummeled while I was pulling the towels out of the  dispenser. I looked in the mirror. I was bleeding.   
LAH: He hid in the bathroom while Syed Rezwan Farook and his wife fired off 76 rounds killing 14 people.    Farook and Baccari shared a cubicle for three years at the San Bernardino County  Health Department. They talked about cars, Farook's 6-month-old daughter,  regular chat between two coworkers.   
: Why do you think he did this?  
BACCARI: Well, I think his beliefs were contrary to our American dreams. You think that somebody that's working to the capacity and educated to the level  that you are has similar respect and values.   
LAH: Law enforcement sources tell CNN that Farook was apparently radicalized and in touch with people being investigated by the FBI, talking by  phone and on social media with more than one person being investigated for  terrorism.    But a law enforcement source says the talks were infrequent. The last one was a  few months ago, not raising any alarms. No red flags either say U.S. and Saudi  goverment officials in 2013 when Farook went to Saudi Arabia. The FBI says the  28-year-old had also traveled to Pakistan.       
LAH: The couple's landlord, who rented the apartment they would later fill with weapons and bomb-making material, saw no sign this was coming.   
DOYLE MILIAN, LANDLORD OF SHOOTERS: It's beyond my comprehension, because he seemed like such a gentle, mild person. You just can't tell a book by its  cover.   
LAH: Farook's brother-in-law didn't know.  
FARHAN KHAN, BROTHER IN LAW OF FAROOK: I have no idea. Why would he do that? Why would he do something like this? I have absolutely no idea. I am in shock  myself.   
LAH: A sentiment echoed by Patrick Baccari.  
BACCARI: Who wants to call their 16-year-old kid to tell them that you just survived an attack? Many people didn't that we love, so --   
LAH: Baccari says the multiple bullet fragments in his body will stay, too risky to remove.    What also remains, confusion that the man he so closely knew did this, now  turning to anger and fear.   
BACCARI: I believe every citizen here should be armed to defend themselves in the case of this happening. But that's not everybody else's belief. I couldn't  have defended anybody from the position I was in, even if I was armed. But at  least if they tried to come in and get us in that restroom, I would have had  some way of maybe protecting the rest of us.       
LAH: We could not find anything as far as a criminal background on Farook. But there are some court documents from a 2008 divorce between the parents that  subtle he had a turbulent childhood. His mother filed a temporary restraining  order. In court documents, she described her husband, Farook's father, as being  violent, mentally ill at times, often not on his meds, and frequently saying he  would commit suicide. She also described him as being violent, throwing once a  tv on her -- John?   
VAUSE: Kyung, thank you for that.   Now Islamic community leaders have been reacting with shock and disbelief to the  shootings.    For more insight, let's turn to Hussam Ayloush, the executive director for the  Greater Los Angeles area chapter of the Council on American Islamic Relations.  He joins us via skype.    Hussam, thank you for being with us yet again for a second night here. As more  details of the shooting spree emerge has there been any retaliation, any  retribution you've noticed towards the Islamic community.    HUSSAM AYLOUSH, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, COUNCIL ON AMERICAN ISLAMIC RELATIONS, 
GREATER AMERICAN CHAPTER: Fortunately, nothing serious. But there has been a lot of death threats, a lot of threats coming to mosques. CAIR has received multiple  e-mail, phone calls throughout the day. But you know what? This is something, as  bad as it is, should not distract us from the fact that there are people  mourning the loss of loved ones now so. We can only imagine how families feel  after loved ones could not make it back from that horrible incident. So our  hearts go out to the victims, all the victims. And we pray for the wounded for a  quick recovery.   
 VAUSE: Again, as more details emerge, the radicalization that we're hearing from sources, the fact that Farook was in touch with a number of people  under investigation by the FBI for terrorism, what has been your reaction to  that? I'm curious if you managed to be in touch with Farook's family to find out  what their reaction has been?   
AYLOUSH: I have been in touch with the family on a daily basis. I just spoke with them a couple of hours ago just to make sure they are OK. Of course, they  are in disbelief. Really -- there must be a reason for somebody to snap, for  somebody to lose reason and lose compassion and humanity. I don't know what the  reason might be that makes somebody susceptible or vulnerable to such behavior.  They don't know either. When I spoke to them, they are in disbelief. Obviously  we are to the going to speculate. We're hearing reports about a possible  ideological extremism involved. We don't know the fact, but if it is, or  whatever the motive might be, the fact still is the same. We unequivocally  condemn such behavior, as Americans, as human beings, and continue to pray for  the victims and all those who are impacted by it.   
VAUSE: We spoke this time last night. And again, you were very quick to condemn the shootings here in San Bernardino. But in the hours after you did that, there  was criticism from some conservatives, some criticism of you coming out and  condemning it all. Do you feel in some ways that you are in a no-win situation  now?   
AYLOUSH: You know, I'm not trying to convince those who have their mind set. Those who have their mind set that Muslims are bad, Muslims are evil, are driven  by their ignorance. I feel sorry for them. I feel sorry for their bigotry and  for their ignorance. I hope they don't teach their kids to generalize against  any other community. I would feel bad for the kids.    I'm speaking to fellow humans like me, fellow Americans who have hearts, brains,  have minds, that they can think, that they can tell that American Muslims, like  all Ameicans, like most Ameicaans, I'd say, care about every human life, care  about every American, and are as outraged by any killings, whether it happens in  Colorado Springs or happens in Georgia or happens in San Bernardino. And that's  the people I'm talking to. These are my fellow Americans. These are the ones  sending messages to the mosque, visiting the mosques, sending messages to the  Muslim neighbors saying we are all in it together. This is not one group  victimized. All of us, together, are victimized by such criminal acts.   
VAUSE: With that in mind, and my last question to you, what else can Islamic leaders like you do to convince Americans and other people out there that, you  know, you are all in this together, that you are doing what you can do under  these circumstances? What else are your options here?   
AYLOUSH: I don't think this is just a job for American Muslims. Again, this is -- the threat of terrorism, whether from white supremacist groups or any  religious extremist groups of Muslim, Christian, Jewish extremist groups, is a  threat against all of us. All of us pay the price. The solution has to come from  all of us working together. We have to realize this is a country worth fighting  for, worth defending values, pluralism, diversity, tolerance. It's worth  striving for. We cannot sit idly and watch, as a spectator, as some people when  bigotry or violence try to destroy the way of living we have. It's not just  Muslims who have to do something. All of us have to play a role in bringing us  together, closing the gap of ignorance that exists or misinformation and  misperception that exists out there.   
VAUSE: Hussam, thank for being with us again. We very much appreciate it. Thank you, sir.   
AYLOUSH: Thank you.  
 VAUSE: Still to come here, we'll be joined by one of the physicians petitioning Congress to view gun violence as they would any other public health  epidemic.   
NATALIE ALLEN, CNN ANCHOR: This is CNN NEWS NOW. Hello, i'm Natalie Allen.   Germany will vote in a few hours on whether it will expand its role in the fight  against ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Lawmakers are expected to vote in favor so the  German military will not be conducting its own air strikes.    Meantime, there is new intelligence that indicates ISIS plans to carry out its  next attack against the U.K., which has just started air strikes in Syria.    Two men have been arrested in Belgium in association with the Paris terror  attacks but the search for this man has gone cold. Salah Abdeslam is believed to  be the eighth attacker. A senior counterterrorism official says European  security agencies have had no trace of him since he was dropped off in Brussels  November 14th, the day after the attacks.    The president of the Brazilian Football Confederation is taking a leave of  absence. Marco Polo del Nero says he will devote his time to defending himself  against U.S. charges stemming from the FIFA corruption scandal. U.S. federal  prosecutors announced charges against 16 FIFA officials on Thursday. They allege  the officials were part of a 24-year bribery scheme.       
ROBERT L. CAPERS, U.S. FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: We say to you, enough is enough. If you are involved in or have the desire to partake in this type of corruption  that we are investigating and prosecuting, now is not the time to hold power or  seek to gain power. Now is the time to step away, to make room for a new  generation of leaders who we hope will give the beautiful game of soccer and  millions of its fans the honest leadership it so richly deserves.       
ALLEN: That is CNN NEWS NOW. I'm Natalie Allen. Continuing coverage on the mass shooting in California continues next.   
ISHA SESAY, CNN ANCHOR: You are watching CNN's breaking coverage of a deadly shooting hoar in California. I'm Isha Sesay, in Los Angeles.   
VAUSE: I'm John Vause, in San Bernardino.   U.S. President Barack Obama honored the shooting victims during the annual tree  lighting ceremony in Washington on Thursday. The first family was there for the  lighting. And despite it being a joyous occasion, there were some somber moments  as President Obama honored those who lost their lives.           
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Merry Christmas, everybody.   Their loss is our loss, too, for we're all one American family. We look out for  each other in good times and in bad. And they should know that all of us care  about them this holiday season. They are in our thoughts. They are in our  prayers. And we send them our love.       
VAUSE: In their first appearances since Wednesday's shooting, Republican presidential candidates expressed condolences to the victim's families and the  survivors. And while President Obama has hesitated in calling the shooting  terrorism, some GOP candidates did not hold back.       
DONALD TRUMP,, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE & CEO, TRUMP ORGANIZATION: We had another event which probably was -- the one yesterday, probably was related,  radical Islamic terrorism. And I'll tell you what. We have a president that  refuses to use the term. He refuses to say it. There is something going on with  him.   
SEN. TED CRUZ,, TEXAS & PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Politically correct doublespeak that comes from the Obama administration has gone beyond the point  of ridiculous.   
CHRIS CHRISTIE,, NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR & PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am convinced that was a terrorist attack.       
CHRISTIE: And --      
CHRISTIE: -- the president continues to wring his hands and say, we'll see.  
JEB BUSH,, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE & FORMER FLORIDA GOVERNOR: The brutal savagery of Islamic terrorism exists. And this president and his former  secretary of state cannot call it for what it is.       
VAUSE: More from San Bernardino in just a moment. But for now, we'll head back to Los Angeles, and Isha.   
 SESAY: Thanks John.   Records show that mass shootings occur in the U.S. on average more than once a  day. ShootingTracker.com defines a mass shooting as one that leaves four or more  people wounded or dead. There have been 353 of those in the U.S. this year,  taking place in 220 cities and 47 states. Including Wednesday's attack, a total  of 462 people have been killed in mass shootings in 2015. And more than 1300  have been injured.    Well, hours before Wednesday's shooting, a group of doctors delivered a petition  to Congress asking them to lift restrictions on gun violence research in the  U.S. Supporters say this latest attack underscores an urgency for objective  medical perspectives.    I spoke with one of the physicians pressing lawmakers to reconsider.       
SESAY: Doctor Alice Chen, thank you so much for joining us.   Now, you said the U.S. is dealing with a gun violence epidemic. And you actually  belong to a group of physicians who believe we should be looking at the problem  of gun violence as a public health issue. Why is that important?   
DR. ALICE CHEN, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, DOCTORS FOR AMERICA: Gun violence is something that is affecting communities, individuals, families across the  country every single day. And as medical professionals, as doctors, as nurses,  as public health professionals we are seeing these people coming into our  hospitals, our E.R.s, people coming in with injuries, people killed by gun  violence, we are seeing them, having to treat them every single day. It is  clearly a public health issue.   
SESAY: Talk to me about the impact of this ban. Talk to me about the kind of data you believe is being lost because it's in place.   
CHEN: We do have a small number of researchers who have been doing research during the past 20 years but it's not nearly enough. We have over 32,000 people  who are dying of gun violence every year in America. And there is so much  information that we don't have. We don't know, what are -- what are the best  ways that we can prevent a teenager from committing suicide with a gun? What --  where are the urban violence that's happening, where are those guns coming from?  Are they illegal? Are they legal? What are the best ways to prevent a child from  accidentally finding a gun and shooting their sibling? These are some basic  questions that we need answered.   
SESAY: How optimistic are you that the ban will be lifted?  
CHEN: I am optimistic. Congress has an opportunity right now to lift the ban. If they don't do it now, they have an opportunity at any moment that they could  lift this ban. And we are seeing an increasing outcry among so many people who  are saying this is not an issue of right versus left, of Republicans versus  Democrats. These are questions everyone wants answers to. Every time we hear  stories of another shooting, one of the first questions all of us ask is, how  did this happen, and how can we prevent it. And that is exactly what we are  trying to get done.   
SESAY: Doctor Alice Chen, we appreciate your efforts and you joining us here to discuss them. Thank you so much for speaking to us.   
CHEN: Thank you so much for having me.      
SESAY: We continue to follow our breaking news coverage of the shooting here in San Bernardino, California. Coming up, the chilling police audio and the chaos  that followed.                   
 DEREK VAN DAM, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Good day. I'm CNN Meteorologist Derek Van Dam, with a quick look at your "Weather Watch."           
SESAY: You are watching CNN's breaking coverage of a mass shooting at a conference center here in California. I'm Isha Sesay, in Los Angeles.   
VAUSE: I'm John Vause, in San Bernardino.   Now, was it a workplace disagreement or was it a terror attack? Investigators  say the massacre at a holiday party was probably a little of both. Sources say  the gunman, Syed Rezwan Farook, was apparently radicalized. He had been in touch  with a number of people under investigation by the FBI for international  terrorism. Law enforcement officials say they have recovered two smashed cell  phones from a garbage can not far from a crime scene. A computer also recovered  at the shooter's home but the hard drive was missing, leading investigators to  believe it was either removed or destroyed.    Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, killed 14 people at that conference center  on Wednesday. They were killed a few hours later in a shootout with police.    The chaos began at 11:00 a.m. local time and it would continue for hours.    CNN's Poppy Harlow has more on the minute by minute response by police.               
UNIDENTIFIED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Confirmed. We have got a shooter in that car.       
POPPY HARLOW, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Police zero in on Syed Rezwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, who just hours before had brutally shot and killed 14  people at an office event.    Acting on a tip, officers head to a house in the town of Redlands just 10 miles  from the scene of the mass shooting. As they approach the home, a black Ford SUV  drives by, slowly at first, then speeding away.       
UNIDENTIFIED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: We are in pursuit of the suspect vehicle eastbound on San Bernardino Avenue from Richardson. We've got shots fired out  the back window.   
HARLOW: One shooter fires at police who are in hot pursuit. The chase headed back to San Bernardino. All of it playing out on live television.       
DISPATCHER: We have units at San Bernardino and Richardson that are taking fire.      
HARLOW: The SUV comes to a stop and a full-scale gun ballots breaks out.      
HARLOW: The shooter firing 76 rounds. At least 21 officers return fire. Nearly 400 rounds riddle the SUV.       
UNIDENTIFIED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Multiple shots fired. We need a Bearcat. We need medical aid.   
UNIDENTIFIED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Right now, we have one down inside the car. One down outside the car.       
HARLOW: Syed Rezwan Farook gets out. But he didn't get very far, his body in a pool of blood just across the street. Malik, her 6-month- old daughter at home  with Grandma, dies in the vehicle.    As darkness falls, a robot enters the shooters' home. Found inside, thousands of  rounds of ammunition, 12 pipe bombs, and what investigators call a bomb lab,  with hundreds of tools that could be used to make explosives.   
: And the question remains tonight, with all of those bomb-making materials, the pipe bombs, the tools found in the couple's home, did they have  bigger plans? Were there other targets? That, we may never know. But the FBI  digging through their garage, their home today to try to find any clues they can  as to what could have possibly been the motivation behind this mass murder.    Poppy Harlow, CNN, San Bernardino, California.       
 VAUSE: It was a massive police response, by all accounts. More than 300 officers responding to that shooting here yesterday, Isha.   
SESAY: Massive, indeed. And the scene was one of horror.   You are watching CNN's continuing coverage. I'm Isha Sesay, in Los Angeles.   
VAUSE: I'm John Vause, live in San Bernardino.   And we will be right back with a lot more on our breaking news coverage, after a  very short break.    You are watching CNN, live around the world.   
 ISHA SESAY, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, and thank you for joining us.  
