    
HIGHLIGHT: Police here in southern California are trying to figure out the motive behind a mass shooting that left 17 people dead and 17 others injured; It  started at a community care center where county employees had gathered for a  holiday party. Police say they think one of the suspects got into an argument,  left that party, came back with his wife, maybe his girlfriend and then opened  fire; And what we saw was harrowing accounts, there are also the chilling videos  which have been coming into CNN recalling the witnesses inside that building,  including the moment people were evacuated and a promise from the man who was  leading them to safety; The San Bernardino police told us they were on the scene  within four minutes of the initial calls for help. And within 15 minutes they  were evacuating the wounded to safety; Britain has conducted its first air  strikes on Syria, by bombing an oil field in the eastern part of the country.  British lawmakers voted in favor of these strikes against ISIS in Syria on  Wednesday after a lengthy debate; The Director of a Los Angeles Islamic group  says that Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik left their young daughter with  her grandmother Wednesday morning. The woman called them after hearing reports  about a shooting but there was no answer.         
JOHN VAUSE, CNN HOST: We would like to welcome our viewers in the United States and all around the world. You're watching CNN's breaking news coverage of the  mass shooting in San Bernardino, California. I am John Vause.   
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN HOST: And I am Rosemary Church here at the CNN center in Atlanta. Thank you for joining us.   
VAUSE: Ok, the very latest now, police here in southern California are trying to figure out the motive behind a mass shooting that left 17 people dead and 17  others injured. It started at a community care center where county employees had  gathered for a holiday party. Police say they think one of the suspects got into  an argument, left that party, came back with his wife, maybe his girlfriend and  then opened fire. We are just learning from police that a bag with what they  describe as rudimentary explosive devices was found inside the conference  facility. The suspects were killed a short time after the attack in a shootout  with police. Authorities say they were dressed in assault-style clothing, and  armed with handguns and assault rifles. This is what the San Bernardino Police  Chief had to say.       
JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE CHIEF: One of the tips that we were following up on took us to a house in Redlands, where we made contact with the  suspect vehicle that we were looking for. That resulted in a pursuit which  ultimately came back into the city of San Bernardino. And on San Bernardino  Avenue between Richardson and Mountain View Avenue that pursuit terminated.  There was an officer- involved shooting. Last count I've been told we had 20 or  21 officers that were involved in the gun battle with the suspects. The two  suspects who were in that car are both deceased and I have their names.    First one has been identified as Syed Rizwan Farook, he is 28 years old. I am  told that he is U.S.-born. The person that was with him is a female. She is  deceased, as well. Her name is Tashfeen Malik. She is 27 years old. I do not  have any additional information on where she is from at this point. I'll talk  about the investigation a little bit. There were some questions that you guys  asked in an earlier press conference about a person that had left the meeting  angry. This was a Christmas party-type event that was taking place with San  Bernardino county employees at the Inland Regional Center.    Mr. Farook is a county employee. He works with his title as an Environmental  Specialist in the Public Health Department, has been employed there for five  years. He was at the party. He did leave the party early under some  circumstances that were described as angry or something of that nature. That is  the information that we were following up on when we encountered him back near  this residence in Redlands, which led to the pursuit in the officer-involved  shooting. And as we have now confirmed he is one of the deceased.    We have gone back and forth between information that they were married or that  they were engaged but there was a relationship. I don't have it definitive as to  exactly what that is now.    I have not able been able to get an update as to whether or not that person was  involved. As I said before, when the officer-involved shooting occurred, the  initial officers didn't see anybody specifically fleeing the vehicle. It was  other responding vehicles that saw this person running away from the scene,  stopped him and detained him. For that reason, we don't know if he was involved  or what his involvement is at this point.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What was the motive of the shooter?  
BURGUAN: So we initially put out that we had information that there was upwards of three shooters. Right now as we continue to drill down on the information and  the witness statements we have, it really looks like we have two shooters. And  we're really comfortable that the two shooters that we had in the building are  the two shooters that are deceased up on San Bernardino Avenue.       
VAUSE: San Bernardino's Police Chief there speaking about an hour or so ago. And we have this into CNN, the first picture of the shooting suspect, Syed Rezwan  Farook, with a picture posted on a dating site. Says he was a Muslim male living  in California. The residents that police are searching here in Redlands are  connected to Farook. Meantime, the director of an Islamic group in Los Angeles  says the couple left their six month-old daughter with her grandmother on  Wednesday morning. She became concerned when she saw the reports about the  shooting on television. Farook's brother-in-law spoke with reporters earlier on  Wednesday.           
FARHAN KHAN, SUSPECT'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: I just cannot express how sad I am for you know what happened. Today, I mean, our condolences to the people who lost  their life. I am very sad that people lost their lives and there are victims out  there. I wish a speedy recovery to them. And again, I am in shock that something  like this could happen.       
VAUSE: Of course, everyone wants to try and work out exactly why this happened. And CNN's Paul Vercammen following these incidents outside joining us live. And  Paul, you have had a chance to speak with some of the witnesses there and they  told you how this day unfolded.   
PAUL VERCAMMEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, what was extremely tense right here is the police had put up their yellow tape and sealed people from getting into that  center, 670 employees in total working there. And of course, it doesn't mean  that other county employees couldn't go to a party there like the one that they  were having this day. When these people could not get inside they started to try  to use their cell phones to contact relatives and loved ones. There was one  young man, who was absolutely beside himself, and he kept telling me I am trying  to call my sister, I am going to call my sister. He said I am going to run right  in there. And you know in these situations, John, you are told if you are a  hostage or trapped somewhere to turn your phone off because you wouldn't want  that ring or a buzz of a text to attract that attention to you, the very sort of  thing that could lure the shooter towards you.    So tense moments, high anxiety, and many people on pins and needles, so many of  them that we would see the expressions as relieved when they finally did hear  back from a loved one inside that building.   
VAUSE: It must be incredible -- incredibly difficult for so many people to be involved in this. And of course, for the investigation, the police and the  authorities they need to speak to pretty much everybody who was involved,  everybody who was somehow in that building. And we're talking hundreds and  hundreds of people.   
VERCAMMEN: You're absolutely right, as we said, 670 working in this center. And we saw it earlier over my right shoulder. All of a sudden, it was the moment  where it looked like the scene was close to cleared like there was some silver  lining. They were both city buses and school buses to take out hundreds it  seemed, of people right along this way, a lot of activity happening as well as  SWAT vehicles. But many of them they said would be interrogated, especially if  they thought they could provide any information as to how all of this went down.  They have said and you may have noted this, John that they said it was a rather  confined space in there where this party was taking place.    And there is also a lot of talk that perhaps it could have been much worse. The  suspects of course, leaving well before police could get there and then heading  down your way to Redlands.   
VAUSE: Yes, and of course there are a number of investigations ongoing right now. There is the one here at Redlands at the town house, one at Farook's  office, because he was a county employee. And Paul Vercammen, thank you for the  very latest. And of course, police are also saying that part of this  investigation is focusing on the explosives which were found inside that  community center. And the Justice Correspondent Evan Perez said that rudimentary  explosives were found inside that center, and what appeared to be some kind of  remote control for a toy car was found inside the SUV. They believe the plan was  to detonate the explosives remotely once the gunman had the scene. The remote  did not work because it was too far away, or they never actually carried that  part of the plot. That's coming to us from our Justice Correspondent, Evan  Perez. Now, the latest numbers we have from San Bernardino police, 14 people  dead, another 17 injured. Many of them were at that holiday party, and  throughout the day we've heard from both survivors as well as anxious family  members. This is what they had to say.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They were barricaded in their office. You could hear a lot of gunshots, crying. When SWAT got her out of the office, she said there were a lot  of bodies to go through to get out.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I heard rapid shooting, boom, boom, boom, and thought oh, gosh, somebody was hunting.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was right behind the building.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I started walking and got into chaos, who knows, boom, boom, boom, I was locked in the middle.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Employees were locked in offices and closets, trying to stay safe.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shooting at my work, people shot, in the office waiting for cops.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But is she ok?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pray for us.      
VAUSE: And what we saw was harrowing accounts, there are also the chilling videos which have been coming into CNN recalling the witnesses inside that  building, including the moment people were evacuated and a promise from the man  who was leading them to safety.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you ready? If you're not cool -- keep your hands where I can see them. Thank you, thank you. Relax, everyone try to relax. I'll take a  bullet before you. That is for damn sure, just be cool, ok?       
VAUSE: The San Bernardino police told us they were on the scene within four minutes of the initial calls for help. And within 15 minutes they were  evacuating the wounded to safety. And they also say they received a tip which  led them to this house here in Redlands. That is where they saw the black SUV  which was driving in a suspicious manner so they gave chase. At least 20  officers were involved in the shootout which followed. You can hear the gunshots  in this audio as police were talking with dispatchers.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Last seen in the alleyway, headed towards the school. Do we have a clear description?   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Male, dark skinned is all I have in this frequency.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You have them go there -- we don't need more people here, just the SWAT team.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What is your exact location?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're at San Bernardino and Sheldon, one guy down in the back of the car.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have the suspect vehicle stopped. We go ahead and extract. We can stand by and wait for the bearcat.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Copy.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right now we have one down outside the car, one down inside the car. Well, we don't know, hold on, from what we understand one is on the  run.       
CHURCH: Extraordinary rundown there and reaction to Wednesday's events is pouring in. U.S. President Barack Obama is once again calling for more gun  control reforms after this latest mass shooting. Speaking to CBS News, he said  that Congress should work together to close loopholes, including one that allows  people to buy a gun even if they're too dangerous to fly.       
BARACK OBAMA, U.S. PRESIDENT: There is some stuff we could take, not to eliminate every one of these mass shootings, but to improve the odds that they  don't happen as frequently. Commonsense, gun safety laws, stronger background  checks, and for those who are concerned about terrorism -- you know some may be  aware of the fact that we have a no-fly list where people can't get on planes,  but those same people who we don't allow to fly could go into a store right now  in the United States and buy a firearm, and there is nothing that we can do to  stop them. That is a law that needs to be changed.       
VAUSE: The U.S. President Barack Obama speaking after yet another mass shooting here.    Now, our breaking news coverage will continue after a short break. We'll have  more details about the shooting here in Redlands and in San Bernardino in just a  moment.   
CAREY DAVIS, SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA MAYOR: This is a shocking event for our community. We certainly are very fortunate that we have such a well trained  police department. Our sheriff's department that -- went into action and they  put a massive effort out trying to alleviate the problem that they were  confronted with.   
CHURCH: And we are following more breaking news, Swiss authorities have arrested two FIFA officials in Switzerland in connection with a corruption scandal. CNN's  Don Riddell is here with new details on this. Now, of course, we know two people  arrested but we don't know much about whom they are and the charges applied at  this point.       
DON RIDDELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We certainly understand they're senior FIFA officials. You're absolutely right we can't report their identities yet. But the  Swiss Federal Office of Justice has confirmed that they are in custody. They are  waiting for extradition hearings. We'll be hearing more about them later on  today. They were picked up in a dawn raid at the Baur Au Lac Hotel in Zurich. We  do understand there will be more individuals charged today. More than a dozen  are expected to be charged. And of course, this is all being led by the U.S.  Department of Justice which has been looking into FIFA for several years. They  allege that this has been a corrupt organization for some two decades.    Of course, FIFA under a criminal investigation, both in the United States and in  Switzerland, as well, it is important to say that we don't think the President  or the suspended President, Sepp Blatter, is on the list of men who we expect to  be charged today. But he does, of course, remain under criminal investigation  himself.   
CHURCH: And we were expecting more people to be arrested, as you say. It's interesting the approach, it's not like they did before, and they actually took  everybody at once. They're doing it in phases, it appears.   
RIDDELL: Well, that might point to where these individuals are. The last time you talked about May 27th, which was two days before the Presidential election.  The expo was in session. Everybody was in the same place. They were all in the  hotel and all of those officers came in and arrested about 40 people I think, on  that occasion. Certainly, that doesn't seem to have been repeated on that scale  at this hotel in Zurich today. But if we are to believe that more people are  going to be charged perhaps they are at different locations. But certainly,  there are echoes of what happened in May. But perhaps things will play out in a  slightly different way.    But that doesn't take away from the fact this has increased the stakes again,  for a world sporting organization that was already in crisis. And you really  wonder how on earth they're going to go forward with even more of their top  officials being arrested, of course, they have an acting President at the  moment, because Sepp Blatter has been suspended by his own ethics committee. He  will be stepping down anyway. The President, Platini, could end up being banned  for life. The whole thing is an absolute mess. And FIFA just cannot get a break  at the moment.    Their key sponsors this week again putting pressure on them to be more  transparent and to include them in the reform process. And this meeting in  Zurich right now was supposed to be discussing reform proposals. Now they will  head into another crisis meeting.   
VAUSE: Yes, that is the irony of it. Don Riddell, covering the story, we'll have you back and get more details, many thank you. We now return to CNN's Breaking  News coverage of the shooting in San Bernardino.   
FARHAN KHAN, SUSPECT'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: And again, I am in shock that something like this could happen here in my community. I love this country. I'm living in  this community for a long time. It's something that just happened here. And on  behalf of my family we all are shocked and very sorry for what happened.   
VAUSE: That's Farhan Khan, the brother-in-law of the man who has been named as a suspect in this shooting Syed Farook. Welcome back, everybody to our continuing  coverage of the mass shootings here in San Bernardino, I'm John Vause.   
CHURCH: And I'm Rosemary Church. We are learning more about what the suspects in the San Bernardino shooting did before carrying out their attack at the Inland  Regional Center. The director of an Islamic group in Los Angeles says Syed  Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik left there baby daughter with her grandmother,  the woman called them after hearing reports of the shooting and got no response.   
VAUSE: Yeah, police say Farook in San Bernardino County Employee attended and then abruptly a holiday party -- saying he left angry. They believe he and Malik  later returned armed, killing at least 14 people, wounding 17 others.  Authorities say they also found a bag with explosives and a detonator at the  scene. Farook and Malik were killed hours later after a chase and a gun battle  with police.    We heard earlier from Glenn Willwerth who witnessed the shooting and he grabbed  his own firearm.           
GLENN WILLWERTH, WITNESS: In my office, my building is actually directly across the street from the center. My office window faces the Inland Regional Center,  and I was in my office and saw somebody run by my window and when I got up to  investigate, they rushed into my front door seeking shelter, and they're  shooting everybody. And so I told everybody to basically just lock down the  building, everybody stay put, bring down all the doors and I actually grabbed my  sidearm and holstered up and went towards where the shooting was happening. And  about half way from my place to where the shooters where, I hunkered down by a  truck that was out on the street, and I stayed posted up there until about  another 10 or 15 shots went off.    I was able to see somebody -- couldn't tell description-wise anything other that  I can see somebody moving through the trees get into a black SUV.   
VAUSE: So Glenn, let's just -- your reaction here, so grabbed your own weapon and you went out. Once you secured the people inside your office, did you  actually fire any shots at the two suspects or did you not get close enough?   
WILLWERTH: No, you know I -- actually were I was posted up was in between my building. I really just wanted to make sure that whatever was going on it didn't  venture over to where I have my family and my employees.       
VAUSE: Joining me now is Hassam Ayloush, he is the Executive Director for the Los Angeles Chapter of Council on American-Islamic Relations. He is live in Los  Angeles, so thank you for being with us. Clearly right now, everybody is  searching for a motive in all of this. I know that you have come out and  condemned this attack, but clearly you've spoken to the family, we've heard from  Syed Farook's brother-in-law. What more can you tell us?   
HASSAM AYLOUSH, COUNCIL ON AMERICAN-ISLAMIC RELATIONS: Well of course, we don't know the motives, and then the family is devastated. Like all Americans today,  filled with sorrow and mourning, and we express on their behalf condolences to  all the families of the victims injured and killed, and just pray for whoever is  responsible to pay the price -- the family is devastated like all people, and  this is the time for us to express solidarity and all of us Americans in  rejecting whatever the motives might have been.    There is absolutely no justification for such horrendous behavior.   
VAUSE: Have you had a chance to speak at length with the family of Syed Farook, and if there was any indication -- I mean we heard fromsaying no  one expected this. What else has the family been saying to you?   
AYLOUSH: I spoke with them, they're as shocked as anybody else. They have no clue that this could've happened. They -- this -- the suspect is married, has a  6 month-old baby. You know they have no reason what made him snap. Is it  workplace related, mental illness? Really unknown to us, all they can do now is  just share with everybody's sorrow and then prayers that this is over quickly  and then that the pain and suffering of all of these families is eased.   
VAUSE: You were very quick to come out and hold a news conference, even had Farook's brother there. Explain why you took that action.   
AYLOUSH: Well, because we're living in a very difficult time. There is a lot of Islamophobia there. We're in mourning by something that happened in Colorado  Springs, for his acts. Not the Christian community, the Muslim community, same  thing we felt there was a need for all American-Muslims to share with the rest  of the country our sorrow today, our shock and agony for what happened. It was  important for the family. They wanted to make sure people know how they felt.  And they insisted to being here. Although they're going through their sorrow as  we speak, but they drove all the way to be at the office to speak to fellow  Americans and say today, we're all victims. We stand united in our sorrow. The  only way we can come through this is our solidarity.       
VAUSE: Ok, so we shall leave it there, but we appreciate you being with us, Hassam Ayloush, thank you for being with us. We appreciate that.   
CHURCH: And you are watching our breaking news coverage. We will get you back out to San Bernardino in California for the latest on the mass shooting there  after this quick break.   
BURGUAN: We initially put out we had information that there were upwards of three shooters. Right now as we continue to drill down on the information and  the witnesses we have, it really looks like there were two shooters. And the two  shooters that went into the building are the two shooters that were deceased up  on San Bernardino Avenue.   
CHURCH: We are following some other breaking news. Britain has conducted its first air strikes on Syria, by bombing an oil field in the eastern part of the  country. British lawmakers voted in favor of these strikes against ISIS in Syria  on Wednesday after a lengthy debate. This comes after France asked the U.S.-led  coalition to bump up the military offensive against ISIS. And CNN's Ian Lee  joins us on the phone from Istanbul in Turkey with more. So Ian, this happened  very quickly, these British air strikes, very soon, talk to us about what all  you know.   
IAN LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That is right, just in the hours after that came through, the debate lasted for about ten hours with roughly two thirds of the  parliament voting in favor of these air strikes. What we know right now is that  two pairs of tornado jets took off from Cyprus. They went and conducted these  air strikes in the eastern part of Syria, targeting oil fields, which have been  really been the new latest target for this coalition, going after the streams of  revenue for ISIS. ISIS gets about 50 percent of its revenue from the illegal oil  trade.    We do not know much more of these details from the flights. Also we know that  the U.K. is saying that it's really a two-fold mission. One, they're going to be  conducting air strikes. But also they will conduct surveillance, gathering  intelligence of what is taking place on the ground.   
CHURCH: And Ian, presumably we will get some briefings on the details of what exactly has been hit, but also how long are these air strikes likely to last.  How long has Britain given -- is there no end to this?   
LEE: Right now it seems like it's open-ended. We have not been given a deadline. And you're right, we are expecting more information about what we should expect,  the U.K.'s role in this coalition, in these new air strikes. You may remember  back in 2013, when the parliament voted against these air strikes, but now  they're part of the coalition joining the United States and others.   
CHURCH: All right, Ian Lee joining us on the line there from Istanbul in Turkey.   And this just into CNN, reports say Russia's foreign minister will meet his  Turkish counterpart sometime Thursday. The meeting will take place in Belgrade,  Serbia. Tensions between both countries escalated with the downing of Russian  warplane last month.    And we return now to CNN's breaking news coverage of the San Bernardino mass  shooting.    Welcome back to our viewers in the United States and all around the world. I am  Rosemary Church at CNN center.   
VAUSE: I am John Vause here in San Bernardino, California. And the suspects were identified after a shooting at a community care center in San Bernardino,  California. One is a man named Syed Rizwan Farook, a county employee, and this  is the first picture we have of him. The other, either his wife or girlfriend is  Tashfeen Malik. The police say the couple left their 6 month-old daughter with  the grandmother on Wednesday morning. The grandmother had not heard from the  couple and became concerned after she saw reports of the shooting on television.        Earlier in the day, police say the couple opened fire at a holiday party,  killing 14 people, wounding at least 17 others.       
BURGUAN: So we have this crime scene. We have the crime scene up on San Bernardino Avenue. We have a house in Redlands, which is where the pursuit  originated where our information took us to. That is being worked as well. As I  said, Mr. Farook was a county employee, so have obviously secured his office  space in case that has any component to the investigation.       
VAUSE: CNN's Randi Kaye has details now on how the shooting and the police chase unfolded.       
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Active shooter that was the warning just before lunchtime in San Bernardino, California, about an hour east of Los Angeles.  Police inside and outside of the building targeted heard the shots. It all  happened at a conference facility where a banquet for county officials was  taking place. That facility is part of a large building complex that also houses  the Inland Regional Center, which provides services to people with disabilities.  Within minutes, the San Bernardino police alert they are looking for not one,  but possibly as many as three shooters.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Multiple people entered the room and began shooting.  
KAYE: The shooters are believed to be dressed in body armor and heavily armed. Police, SWAT teams, the ATF, and FBI raced to the scene and set up a perimeter.  They believed the shooters were still somewhere inside the large complex. Loved  ones of those trapped inside also arrived, this man's daughter texted him. She  was hiding.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shooting at my work, people shot, in the office waiting for cops.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But she is ok?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pray for us.  
KAYE: This man got a text from his wife when the shooting started.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She said the guy came in next to her office and I guess started shooting. They locked themselves in her office. They see bodies on the  floor. And she said right now ambulances are taking people out in stretchers.   
KAYE: As families wait for answers, the California's Governor is briefed, and so is the President. Schools and hospitals are locked down. Meanwhile, police  continue to try and track down the shooters.   
UNIDENTIFIEDFE MALE: We don't know where the shooters are. They are heavily armed and possibly wearing body armor. It is not a safe area to be, very  dangerous. And the fewer innocent here we have here, the better.   
KAYE: Shortly after it all began, at least a dozen people exit the building. Hands up, this man's son was safely evacuated, only after texting his dad that  there were live shooters in the building.   
UNIDENTIFIEDFE MALE: He was pretty nervous and upset, worried. He didn't know for sure what was going on. I told him to hunker down, make sure their cell  phones were off. Keep the noise, don't make noise, you know, hide under the  desk.   
KAYE: By late afternoon, the suspects are on the run, witnesses see the suspects with long guns take off. Hours later, a shootout with police leaves two suspects  dead. More than a dozen victims are also dead, even more wounded and the motive  far from clear. Randi Kaye, CNN, Atlanta.       
CHURCH: And CNN's Paul Vercammen, following developments outside the community center in San Bernardino. He joins us live. And Paul, by all accounts this was a  massive police response, and we're getting reports of just how quickly police  arrived on scene.   
VERCAMMEN: Yes, they say it took a mere four minutes to arrive on scene. I can tell you we were seeing federal agents here, San Bernardino police, and San  Bernardino county sheriffs. We were also seeing you know members of alcohol,  tobacco and firearms, the key to all of the because of the fear of bombs. And  when it was learned that some sort of exchange of gunfire had taken place down  where you are in Redlands, we saw officers come whipping out of here, and one of  the keys to all of this, those armored SWAT vehicles. They used those at one  point to go ahead and box in, if you will, the suspects in a pincer-like move.  And they carefully, carefully, walked upon the vehicle. The vehicle, the SUV,  shot out the window among other things and used the armored personnel carriers.    Much like something you might even see in a war zone. They used those as covers  so they could unload on the suspects. As you heard, 21 law enforcement officers  involved in this shootout, for lack of a better term, I mean, they were just  trading fire right there in the neighborhood. Not far from here we could hear  the helicopters, just high anxiety throughout San Bernardino County, John.       
VAUSE: It was incredible when you looked at that SUV. It was literally riddled with bullets by the time this was all said and done. Paul, one of the issues at  the community center, where you are, they tried to clear the building of any  explosives. What is the latest on that?   
VERCAMMEN: Well, from what we heard, it sounded like successful detonation. We don't know if the bombs were live or active. We talked off camera with federal  agents. They say one of the pipe bombs they threw at the shooting scene was not  active. But they took that precaution, it sounded like, because of the muffled  nature of it to go ahead and blow up what was already in there protectively. So  otherwise you could see fire behind me and that certainly was not the case.   
VAUSE: Ok, Paul, thank you, Paul Vercammen, live again for us outside the community center where this shooting all began. Thank you, Paul.    Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik were killed in that shootout. Police say  they shot at them from this dark colored SUV that Paul was talking about. This  all happened not far from that community center. It was a bomb that looked like  it was being tossed from the vehicle. David Danelski, a Reporter from the Press  Enterprise was caught up in this middle of all of this after getting a tip.   
DAVID DANELSKI, PRESS ENTERPRISE: I saw three or four police cars, blazing on San Bernardino Avenue. And I followed them and as I was following them I heard a  thunderous sound. And there were these -- was a strange noise. And I assume -- I  didn't know what it was. I guess it was where bullets were whizzing through the  air like a whipping sound. And I pulled over and got out of the car, grabbed my  camera. And I could see some police officers ahead of me. And then I didn't hear  any shooting at that point. I started walking towards it. There was a thunderous  outbreak of gunfire, police officers basically yelling for me to get down. All  the guns were drawn, and as this was going on waves and waves of police officers  were coming from behind me.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: David, did you see -- this was all at the location of the SUV, correct?   
DANELSKI: Yes, and I did not see the SUV or the shooters, or any of that. You know, this was a situation where there was just a lot of gunfire. And the  shooting went on for about a ten-minute period, I would say. And then it got  quiet again.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When you were out of your vehicle and heard shots being fired, was it your impression again -- you may not know the answer to this. Was  it your impression there was incoming or outgoing fire?   
DANELSKI: I don't know which way it was going, that was the scary thing. I could see police in front, they were probably engaged in shooting, but I couldn't tell  which police were shooting and which were not. It seemed as though like waves of  police were arriving behind and ahead of me with guns drawn. Guns you know some  had handguns. Others had assault rifles.       
CHURCH: President Obama's reaction to the California shooting still ahead. Plus, a look at how police train for events likes this.           
DAVID BOWDICH, ASSISTANT DIR. LOS ANGELES FBI FIELD OFFICE: I know one of the big questions that will come up repeatedly, is this terrorism? And I am still  not willing to say that we know that for sure. We are definitely making some  adjustments to our investigation. It is a possibility, but we don't know that  yet. And we're not willing to go down that road yet.       
VAUSE: We would like to welcome our viewers from the United States and all around the world. This is CNN's Breaking News coverage of the mass shootings  here in San Bernardino. I am John Vause.   
CHURCH: And I am Rosemary Church at CNN center.  
VAUSE: Ok, we are learning new details about the suspects in this mass shooting. The Director of a Los Angeles Islamic group says that Syed Rizwan Farook and  Tashfeen Malik left their young daughter with her grandmother Wednesday morning.  The woman called them after hearing reports about a shooting but there was no  answer. Police say Farook, a company employee attended and then abruptly left a  holiday party at thatthey say along with Malik he killed at least  14 people and wounded 17 others when they both later returned with armed guns.  Authorities say they found a bag of explosives and a detonator at the scene.  Farook and Malik were killed hours later after a gun battle with police.  Authorities are trying to work out a clear motive for this attack. But it's  still early in the investigation. Our Law Enforcement Analyst Cedric Alexander  shared his thoughts just a short time ago.       
CEDRIC ALEXANDER, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: There is still a lot left to be determined in this particular case. As you heard the police chief say earlier  during the press conference, he is determined to get to the bottom of  determining what the motive is. But at this point it could be a variety of  things. So I think we have to accept that narrative at this point, because as  unusual and confusing as this whole event unfolds throughout the course of the  last 12 hours, there is a lot yet still to be determined.   
VAUSE: A lot of people are making the point that clearly the events that happened after an argument at a holiday party go way beyond what would be a  normal reaction for a dispute between work colleagues and an end of year party.  So at least in your assessment there has to be something more to this than  simply angry words at a staff party.   
ALEXANDER: Well, certainly. I mean, if you look at the fact that he left, he came back. The weapons he was armed with, and the fact, too as well, the number  of people that were injured and killed. This was a horrible, horrible crime. And  this is more than just one or two people having a falling out at a Christmas  party. This is something much more in depth than that. And certainly, without  question, there was some planned organization to this attack that occurred. So  rather -- this argument was started with real intent of coming back. But it is  very perplexing. But I am certain, in my experience, John, that this was a  staged event and they knew that they were going to come back and do harm to  people.       
VAUSE: Thanks to Cedric Alexander for that.   And we'll continue to follow the breaking news of the mass shooting in  California. When we come back, we'll hear from those who heard the shots and  then simply hoped to get out alive.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The multiple agencies just to help other people, and the audacity of people who just want to come out here and shoot. It's insane.   
CHURCH: Breaking news, South Africa's Supreme Court has just convicted Oscar Pistorius of murder in the 2013 death of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.  Correspondent Dave Mackenzie is live in Johannesburg with the very latest.  David, talk to us about the reaction in the courtroom -- a lot of people were  not expecting this outcome.   
DAVE MACKENZIE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In fact, it was potentially expected by legal experts we spoke to in the lead-up to this. And the reaction initially was Reeva  Steenkamp's mother seemed to vet out a sigh of relief or sigh of closure in this  case. It really was a systematic destruction of the defense's case, and the  judge went in to some key areas, effectively saying that this should be a murder  charge, a murder conviction, setting aside the culpable homicide conviction of  Pistorius. And the main argument was that he said that Pistorius had the intent  and the knowledge -- by shooting shots through that bathroom door that he would  kill the person behind that door, and it was irrelevant whether that person was  in fact his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp, an intruder or anyone else. He also said  that the judge in the case at the high court ignored much of the circumstantial  evidence if they had put that into play, they said they might have come up with  a different conclusion and pushed murder.    So at this stage, Pistorius is looking at a lengthy prison sentence, at least 15  years potentially, and certainly big news in this ongoing trial of this former  Olympian.       
CHURCH: And Dave Mackenzie, joining us there live from Johannesburg. I do want to bring in CNN Legal Analyst Kelly Phelps now, she is part of the law faculty  at the University of Cape Town, and she joins us by phone.    Welcome back, everyone, I am Rosemary Church.   
VAUSE: And I am John Vause here in San Bernardino where it is coming up to 1:00 a.m. in the morning. And police have identified the suspects in the mass  shooting here. And we have just received our first picture of one of them. He is  this man right there, Syed Rizwan Farook, a county employee, the other shooter,  either his wife or his girlfriend. She has been named as Tashfeen Malik.   
CHURCH: Both were killed in the shootout after they led police on a chase after a holiday party. San Bernardino marks the 355th mass shooting in the U.S. this  year. That is more mass shootings than days so far in 2015. Mass shootings have  occurred every month this year, with 44 happening in June alone. A mass shooting  is defined as a shooting with at least four people injured or killed, including  the shooter. Now these numbers are in the tracker data base. The San Bernardino  shooting is the deadliest in 2015. I want to take a look at some of the other  high profile shootings this year. And just this past Friday, a suspect killed  three people at a Planned Parenthood in Colorado. Two months ago, a gunman  attacked a community college in Oregon and killed nine people.    In August, a Virginia news crew was shot and killed on live television by a  former co-worker who later killed himself. In July, a military recruiting center  in Tennessee was attacked. Four marines and a sailor were killed. And in June,  nine people were killed in a shooting during a church prayer meeting in  Charleston, South Carolina.        Well, in an age where mass shootings are happening more and more in the U.S.,  public safety officials are making sure they train for the worse case scenario.  CNN got an exclusive look at one of those training programs.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Drop the gun!  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you understand me?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One down, one down, one down.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All the scenarios are geared towards events that have already occurred.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We got a shooter.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The environment they put us in typically is schools. But we make everybody aware that an active shooter can happen anywhere, in churches, in  movie theaters. Places where there is a large mass of people that are really not  expecting something to happen like that.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Across the country, active shooters are becoming more and more evident and problematic.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let me see your hands.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're teaching them how to approach the location, how to get in. Our number one goal in teaching active shooters is to stop the killing. But  the second goal we're looking for is to stop the dying.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Active shooter is probably one of the worst scenarios a police officer can handle. Life or death is what we're paid for, but we need to  neutralize the threat to save lives.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The simulation of training is as close to real life as you can get them. Their heart rate is spiking. They're nervous. It's the best you're  going to do without actually shooting real bullets at a person.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He has got a gun!  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So there have been suspicious men with guns, no shots have been fired type of thing. And they're coming in to investigate. And it turns  into a shooting. They dealt with explosives, IED kind of awareness. They're also  dealing with hostage situations. Training builds confidence. A lot of these guys  don't have much confidence because they don't get environments like this.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The lessons we learn under stress is the lessons we retain the longest.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I mean, this is actually a really good job, all that is done right here. Weeks after they have gone through the training they have actually  been involved in incidents, and it helped them survive those incidents. So it is  helping.   
VAUSE: The witnesses have been sharing their stories with us throughout the day. We've also been hearing from family members anxiously  waiting for news about their loved ones. This is what they have been saying.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shooting at my work, people shot, in the office waiting for cops.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is not a safe area to be in. It's very dangerous.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The section there, where you would have locked the door.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There was an active shooter and we needed to stay and get staff locked behind doors. So we stayed there until the SWAT team came in and  evacuated us.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was just walking out, and this lady and I heard other shots. I started walking and all of a sudden got in chaos.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They are heavily armed and they are possibly wearing body armor, things of that nature.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Large armed response here by the sheriff's department.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Someone had come in and started shooting. And they ran into an office and she is hiding with some other people.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She said the guy came in next to her office and I guess started shooting. They locked themselves in, in her office, they seen bodies on  the floor. And she said right now ambulances are taking people out.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She was shuttled into a room. Police showed up. They were taken outside, thank god there were not more casualties.       
VAUSE: I just saw the horrific images and terrifying situations that they have gone through. And you have been watching CNN's coverage of that breaking news in  California. I'm John Vause.   
CHURCH: And I'm Rosemary Church. Early Start with John Berman and Michelle Kosinski will have the very latest. That's next.       
