    
HIGHLIGHT: Looking deeper into the San Bernardino shootings.    
BOB BAER, CNN INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ANALYST: ... the interior minister, that I've been getting texts from the Middle East saying the Saudi royal family is  not long for this world. They're trying to hold back this radicalization of the  Saudi street.     They're doing their best, you know, the interior minister, the crown  prince is on our side clearly, but they can't keep a lid on this volcano. And  they can't keep track of all the radicalized militant, you know, warriors, if  you like, that are being created, that are going to Syria, going to Iraq,  fighting with the Islamic state, coming home, radicalizing other people and  especially American citizens who go on the Hajj.    And they're also, you know, giving them money and training. And I'll go back to  this again, Chris. I spent 21 years in war zones. And the last thing on my mind  was being approached, you know, being attacked by the police or, you know,  tracked by them, is to pick up a weapon and shoot back. These people were  committed.    They're not just -- it's not a workplace shooting. I just -- don't see it at  this point.   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: So let's move past that.   Jonathan Gilliam, let me bring you in, in terms of what this represents as a  threat. If the guy was an American citizen, which we know he was, he goes  abroad. He had weapons before he went abroad. But if he get something else in  his head afterwards and then winds up coupling up with somebody who shares his  own sense of inhumanity, how do you see that in terms of a repeatable threat?   
JONATHAN GILLIAM, FORMER FBI AGENT: Well, you know, this is a good question here. And it's a great example, when Jim Sciutto talked earlier about how  experts have been saying that we need to look at certain things for a long time,  you know, in 2003 to 2005, I was a part of a group that went all over the  country doing threat assessments as special forces operators for the Department  of Homeland Security.    And we were screaming this stuff, saying, "We have to look at soft targets, we  have to look at events, we have to look at the tactic of using females or  children."    And what I find now is that we are actually trying to catch up, even though we  were screaming that before, security in a lot of ways here is done like the  airline industry, where they wait for an incident to happen, and then they  start, you know, trying to catch up and create new tactics and new standards.    And I think, you know, what Bob was talking about earlier there, when he was in  the CIA and going over and looking at these groups, the CIA forward-thinks a lot  more than the law enforcement does inside the United States. And I think that  it's time we start moving in that direction.   
CUOMO: All right, Anthony May, let me bring you in on this. What is that that mean? It's not just what you do and what you focus on, its how, if this is  suggestive or instructive of anything, what happened here in San Bernardino,  what do you see that being?   
ANTHONY MAY, RETIRED ATF EXPLOSIVES EXPERT: Well, I'm sorry, could you -- you have to repeat your question there.   
CUOMO: It's not just what you focus on in terms of your defense and anti-terror techniques, it's how you do it. If you take a lesson from what we're learning  here in San Bernardino, what is it?   
MAY: Well, the lesson is this. What we're seeing in just about every mass shooting of late is explosive devices being utilized.    Now, the typical scenario is a SWAT team will go in, they'll clear the facility,  looking for bad guys, looking for victims, and then usually, if a bomb --  suspect package is found, they'll pull out or they'll stop, a bomb tech will go  in.    We're changing. We're evolving. For the last 12 months, we've been working on a  program called the tactical bomb technician, basically integrating the bomb tech  in with the SWAT team on the first entry into a scene.    So as they're moving through a building, if they see items like they did  yesterday that are suspicious in nature, it doesn't really halt the operations  because the bomb tech is there, he's going to handle it as the SWAT team goes on  and does their mission.    So we're evolving in our tactics as they evolve.   
CUOMO: All right, fellas, stay with me. I want to take a break here. But we do have this presser coming up where we're going to get all of the authorities  involved in this right now to give us the latest sense of information. Stay with  CNN's continuing coverage.     When we come back, we'll get more pieces to the puzzle.   
CUOMO: All right we are here in San Bernardino as part of CNN's continuing coverage of the mass shooting here.    14 people had their lives stolen from them by two shooting suspects, a man and a  woman. 17 others are still fighting for their life with different degrees of  injuries in local hospitals. We are awaiting a presser from the San Bernardino  police chief, the sheriff and the FBI.    There are many agencies, there's several federal agencies, involved in this.    And I want to bring in Former Chief Jim Bueermann here.    It is interesting and instructive how not only the local police work so quickly  but how many different assets came in to make this takedown possible.   
JIM BUEERMAN,CHIEF REDLANDS CALIFORNIA POLICE: Right, this region has had a long history of collaboration and working together, they train together.  The relationship between the federal agencies, the local agencies, the county,  the city police, has been great. You know, it's that is not always true, in  different parts of United States. But it has been that way as long as I can  remember, so back at least to the 70s that this great relation.   
CUOMO: I'm not a fearmonger, but we both remember a time when something like a Lenco BearCat, a police force asking for what seems to be military equipment,  was very controversial. But we saw two BearCats used yesterday to pinch this  SUV.    And it seems as though times have changed, not to mean that we're losing, not to  mean that, you know, the bad guys are taking over. But times have changed in  terms of the threat and the need for how you respond, true?   
BUEERMAN: Well I -- yeah, and I think we're also getting better about talking about the use of the equipment. It isn't so much the equipment that's  problematic its how the police those things.    So if you use an armored vehicle in a nonviolent protest, that's very  problematic for people, right, if you use it when -- in an active shooter  situation, I don't think anybody has objections to that.    So I think the challenge for police departments is to message why we have that  piece of equipment, make sure everybody understands when it's going to be used,  and that we're holding ourselves accountable when we use it.   
CUOMO: Now, sometimes in these investigations as we're waiting for this presser to come, and we do expect there to be some information.    Let me take a breath on that right now. To your understanding there's a good  chance we're going to hear why they feel that this male suspect was in fact  radicalized.   
BUEERMAN: Right, I think that's what we're going to hear. They have been very busy. They've been working throughout the night. This has been a nonstop  investigation since that first 911 call.    I think that they're likely to reveal a lot of why they believe 
... CUOMO: Youknow, and sometimes, you know, put your focus of emphasis what you still need to know, given the exigencies of a situation, the exigency right now is motor, why  who else could be involved, that's where why it takes you.    The what, is the guns. There are gun in these two guys. So you don't worry about  it as much this man and woman.    However, I think we may have skipped over something with, he bought these two  handguns a few years ago, OK.    Why did he wait, why did he buy them, no, we may never know. But the two long  guns, my understanding is you can't buy those in California.   
BUEERMAN: On California, no, you cannot.  
CUOMO: So we know they were bought legally. The authorities told us that. By somebody else whom they don't believe is connected to the shootings, but help me  understand that, chief, because they didn't buy them legally here, right. And  there's a sophistication grandfathering policy, they have 2001 or 2006 for an  AR-15.    And unless it was done then, and it doesn't seem like it was, they wouldn't be  legal here. So that means somebody else bought them somewhere else and these two  got them here.    Now, that is something that has to be looked at, doesn't it?   
BUEERMAN: Absolutely, there isn't any aspect of this that doesn't need to be looked at so that whether it's the guns, whether it's who they may or may not  have been connected to.   
CUOMO: Right.  
BUEERMAN: Because that speaks to is there something else out there, right, is there somebody else waiting to do something. I mean think this is different. I'm  not a counterterrorism expert. But I'm from a policing perspective, I find this  very interesting that after they knew the police, they had just killed a bunch  of people, they are engaged in a pursuit and run and gun battle with police, why  were they coming back to the same place.     I mean, I don't know that we'll ever know that particular thing. But  just the different aspects this have significant implications. I suspect for the  counterintelligence community. But it has significant informations for local  policing who are always going to be the first responders. That's always going to  be...   
CUOMO: And there's this very frightening analysis that we're going through here in the story of were they running or were they reloading. But they're trying to  get back to the house where one of the responding officers was to get other  things, other equipment. We'll know more when we hear from local authorities.  Because they've have been searching that house top to bottom, they certainly  found things there. We just got a two-minute warning. And, you know, you  mentioned something else, about the change and mentality in terms of how we  police these situations, from a defensive mode to a warrior mode. And you're  saying that what we saw yesterday. How should people see that shift?    What is that mean for citizens like me?   
BUEERMAN: Well I think it's important to know the police have the ability to act as warriors when they need to be.    But I think there's the bigger issue here and this is what the president's task  force talked about, the notion of guardians which is the highest level that a  society gives to the group of people who protect them.    And it speaks to more than just running and shooting and cooking and booking and  all the things we might think about in the warrior side of policing.    It's more about being responsive and fair and impartial in our policing and  that's where the guardian piece comes in.    And it's a huge shift from warrior to guardian where guardians can act in a  warrior mode when they needed.   
CUOMO: Like they did yesterday. And, you know, we are getting more information that suggest these two knew, what they're doing. And, you know, to the  uninitiated the idea that you pick up an AR-15 and you just start shooting it,  and everything goes well that is naive.    You need to know how to use a weapon like that. It's not a simple as it sounds,  trust me. But what we saw yesterday and we can see the local leaders are moving  up right now. As soon as they get ready to speak, we'll stop so we can hear what  they have to say.    But one last point on this, with what we saw yesterday, you don't learn in the  academy to do what those men and women did yesterday.    When they took up after an SUV that had somebody with a serious weapon inside  shooting at them initially that speaks to a new type of behavior by police, what  did you see?   
BUEERMAN: Well I saw a bunch of gutsy police officers doing exactly what society . I mean these guys were heroes.    They -- any one of them could have been killed at any point of that thing.   
CUOMO: And one was injured.  
BUEERMAN: Yeah, and they didn't hesitate for a moment. They went as fast as they could, charged as hard as they could to protect the people.    And I'm very proud of what these guys did yesterday.   
CUOMO: A lot of rounds were expanded. They needed to do that to stop the threat as soon as they could.    And again, you can see they're assembling there, they're getting ready to go. As  we see more and more in these situations.    There are bigger crowds around the microphone and that's because there are more  and more assets and agencies involved, local, sheriff, state, federal.    So they're going to start right now, let's listen in.   
JARROD BURGUAN, CHIEF IN SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: Good morning, everybody. Again my name is Jarrod Burguan J-A-R-R-O-D, last is B-U-R- G-U-A-N chief police here  in San Bernardino. Also sheriff McMahon with me and we have Congressman Pete  Aguilar and County's supervisor, James Ramos joining us this morning as well.    I want to start this of, by reiterating that how incredible tragic this is. And  we've got as lot of families that are clearly devastated by what happened here.    And we need to be sensitive to that. And I want to put out to those families out  there that our prayers are with them and that we are here to support them any  way that we can.    Some updated numbers. Same as yesterday, we have 14 people that are confirmed  dead in this incident. The number of wounded has risen from 17 to 21. And  they're being treated at various local hospitals.    We were asked yesterday about the number of officers that responded. We are  still compiling the total number of officers that responded here at 11:00 when  the initial call of the shooting went out.    Our rough count right now is about 300 officers from local, county, state and  federal agencies that responded for the initial active shooter component of this  and helped deal with the crime scene here.    Many of those assets also moved and were part of the investigation and the  officer involved shooting that followed.    Here at the scene, at the Inland Regional Center what we have total is, we  believe the suspects when they entered fired somewhere between 65 and 75 rounds  from their rifles at the scene.    We did locate the one pipe bomb, there was actually three pipe bombs combined  into one that had a remote control, car type of remote control device that  appears to have not worked in this case.    There were also four high capacity 223 rifle magazines that were dropped by the  suspects and left in there as evidence that has been recovered.    I can confirm that the suspects were wearing the black-style tactical gear we  talked about yesterday. They were not wearing ballistic vests, bulletproof  vests. What they did have and what people may have confused is they had  tactical-style vest that held equipment and magazines and ammunition and that  sort of stuff. Sorry 
?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Load bearing gear.
BURGUAN: Yes, load bearing gear.   On the officer involved shooting that took place a couple of hours after the  incident. We talked yesterday about how that came to be. How we ended up at that  point in the investigation and what we were following up on. On the officer  involved shooting that occurred, we had seven police agencies that were involved  in that shooting including our department, the sheriff's department, I think we  had 14 of our police officers involved, and then there were various other  agencies, overall part of the some of the local task forces that had come to  assist in the initial response.    But the seven agencies involved, we had 23 officers that were actually fired  their weapons at the suspects. Law enforcement fired approximately 380 rounds at  the suspects. Both of them were killed here at the scene. The suspects are  believed to have fired about 76 rifle rounds at the officers at the termination  of the pursuit.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How many?  
BURGUAN: 76 is our number we have right now. However, on them, on their person, on their body and in the vehicle, they had over 1,400 223 caliber rounds that  were available to them and they had over 200 9 millimeter rounds on their person  as well.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How many then?  
BURGUAN: 200 9 millimeter rounds. We talked about yesterday they had the 223 assault-style weapons rifles and they had 9 millimeters pistols with them.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You said 1,400 on the...  
BURGUAN: 1,400 223 rounds, 209 millimeter rounds.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On their person?  
BURGUAN: On their person, yes. On their person or immediately in the vehicle, around and available to them. Let me get to a few others. We had two officers  that were injured in that incident. One of them was a Samuelpolice officer  that sustained a gunshot wound to his left leg. He was taken to a local hospital  last night. He is probably going to be released this morning, if he has not  already been released. His injuries are not life threatening. I did visit with  him in the hospital. He is in good spirits.    We also as of this morning learned there was a second deputy that was also  injured in the incident. Sustained some cuts to his leg. That we believe  probably came from broken glass or shrapnel. We're not exactly sure. But two  officers total were injured in that exchange.    The house in Redlands that became part of the focus of this investigation  yesterday. I will confirm that the search that took place revealed that there  were 12 pipe bomb-type devices found in that house or in the garage to that  house. There were also hundreds of tools. Many of which could be used to  construct IEDs or pipe bombs, and in addition to that, they had other material  to have produced some additional bombs as well.    There were another 2,000 9 millimeter rounds found at that house. Over 2,500  .223 rounds found at that house, and -- there were 2,500. There were additional  several hundred 22 long rifle rounds that were found there. So with that, I'm  here to talk about the specifics of the investigation and what we discovered  evidence wise. I think the FBI got some comments to make a little bit later on  this. Do you have any questions for me?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you believe they were planning another attack?  
BURGUAN: We don't know. Clearly, they were equipped. And they could have continued to do another attack. We intercepted them before that happened  obviously.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do any other suspects for people of interest do you want to talk to? Somebody know about this.   
BURGUAN: So the investigation is still going on. I don't think we're prepared to talk about it there are other people we might be looking for. We are confident  that the two people that were involved in the shooting here are the two dead  suspects that we have at the scene and we do not have any credible information  to indicate there is an immediate threat to anybody in the area or anybody in  the region.       
BURGUAN: Can't hear everybody. Brian.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The remote control car that was with the pipe bomb, can you elaborate what that was?   
BURGUAN: So I'm not an expert on it. It's my understanding that somehow it was three pipe bombs that were attached together. Somehow it attached to this remote  control car. And it was designed that the remote control device would somehow  trigger or set that device off. We don't know if they attempted to do that and  it failed or what the story is.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... car that was driving, that was moving...  
BURGUAN: It was found in a bag that was there at the scene.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Whatdid contact with terrorists is via e-mail, by social media?   
BURGUAN: I'm going to let the FBI address those particular.      
BURGUAN: The GoPro is not confirmed. We do not have any information the suspects that any GoPros on them or any cameras of any sort that was on them.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Base on your interviews with all the eyewitnesses, can you tell us exactly what happened in the room, and do you still believe that there  was some dispute and they left and came back? This seems very much preplanned.   
BURGUAN: So we have people in the room that have indicated that the suspect was in the room, during the early part of this meeting or party-type event. It was a  County Public Health Christmas holiday-type gathering luncheon is what it was.  He was part of that. He was there early on and he left.     We did have some initial information that he left under some kind  duress or as if he was angry. We also have somebody else say that, you know, he  just kind of disappeared. We don't know where he went from there. So I don't  know that we know enough about yet. But we will confirm that he was there early  on.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have any motive when they shot, sir? Do know their motive.   
BURGUAN: We still don't have the motive.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How they gone in the building, where they targeting anyone in particular?   
BURGUAN: So, the building that this took place in, I'm sure you guys all have aerial views of I.R. and seeing what it is. So this took place in the southern  most building on the property. The doors that they entered were located on the  east side, so they entered from that parking lot into those east doors, which  went directly into the room, which is where the shooting took place. Those doors  were unlock, there was open park of east coast.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... who left the party and then...  
BURGUAN: Well, they sprayed the room with bullets so I don't know there was any one person they ultimately targeted. They killed 14 people there.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What was the bomb...  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Chief, is there any indication that...  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Any idea how much time elapsed when he supposedly got in this argument, left, and any idea where his wife was left.   
BURGUAN: Yeah. I have to apologize. I meant to follow up on that question and I failed to ask that today. Yesterday, we had information that it was anywhere  from 10 minutes to 30 minutes. I'll try to tie that up by later on in the day.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Chief it seems it's hard to believe that all of these spontaneous. And how can he get...   
BURGUAN: We had said yesterday there appears to be a degree of planning that went into this. Nobody just gets upset at a party, goes home and puts together  that kind of elaborate scheme or plan to come back and do that. So there was  some planning that went into this.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is there any indication, please, sir, is there any indication of how long they had been stockpiling...   
BURGUAN: I don't think we are far enough into the investigation to really be able to definitively say what that pattern has been or every place that they  have been and what they've been doing over the last several months or last  several years. That's part that we're still working on them.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did he have a grudge against his co-workers? That you were able find out about?   
BURGUAN: Not that I'm personally aware of. But I think at some point later today, we'll probably have a comment from his employer and the county to talk  about some of those issues.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He was no longer employed, right? On at. Why was he invited back to this point?   
BURGUAN: Well, if my understanding, he was still an employee of the county.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where did he buy the gun from, you know?  
BURGUAN: The guns were legally purchased. The two handguns were purchased by him. The rifles were not. But those are components we are still following up on.  All four guns were legally purchased.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can you talk about what exchange...  
BURGUAN: I'm sorry?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: ... that he have a record.  
BURGUAN: There's no criminal record that he had that we're aware of.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... getaway car, we're told he workthere was Utah license plate, any idea how it was acquired?   
BURGUAN: It was a black Ford Excursion -- the big, its expedition or Ford? Expedition, I'm sorry. Black Ford Expedition. It was a rental car. He rented it  three or four days ago. It was actually due to be returned yesterday. That's why  it had Utah plates, but it was rented locally.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where did he rent it? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: ... about his travels overseas, is there any connection that something was planned by that  trip?   
BURGUAN: I'll let the FBI discuss that. That those are things they're working on.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, have you been able to identify all the victims and notify next of kin?   
BURGUAN: So our plan today is we're going to do a morning press conference throughout the course of the day. Sheriff McMahon and the coroner's office is  going to start releasing the names of the victims. We've been working throughout  the night to get identity of those folks and make notifications.    So we will start to put those names out here fairly soon. We're going to  probably try to get some pictures out for you as well and probably try move the  media a little closer to the scene for you. And then we'll come back and do a  press conference later on. But throughout the course of the day, we anticipate  we'll start releasing the names of the victims.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yesterday, you talk employees where the county employees the victims...   
BURGUAN: I do not know if they all were. Several of them, we believe, are.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, can you talked about the results of the officer . Can you talk a little bit about this community and how you see them  being able topast this...   
BURGUAN: You know, I read an article by one of the reporters in the press -- no, I'm sorry the sun in the morning -- this morning in that, she talked about the  resiliency of this community. And the fact everybody knows San Bernardino has  been beaten up with the bankruptcy and some of the things that have hit this  community. And economically this community has been hit hard.    But this is a pretty resilient community. We will survive this. We've had an  enormous ground swell of support from our neighboring communities and well  wishes that have come in from all over the place. I do know that there's a  candlelight vigil planned later tonight. I believe it's at the stadium on "E"  Street. And I think you'll see evidence there of a tremendous amount of support  and people are going to come together and support.    As far as the officers, everything that I've seen and all the officers from my  department that I've contacted, they're doing extraordinarily well. I'll tell as  the chief of this agency, I'm incredible proud of the way our folks responded.     Not only the initial response here and the help we got from our local  and regional partners but for the way they also engaged in that officer involved  shooting and chasing down those suspects. That nothing short of heroic and  extremely proud of the way they handled that.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, were you officers wearing body cams?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- for guns were legally purchased but is it legal to have those long guns here in California, are those?   
BURGUAN: So, I think there's some question still about whether they were California legal or not. We have not gotten to the bottom of that. And I'll let  ATF address that later on. But we do know at this point that the four guns were  purchased, appear to be a legal purchase, and appear to be registered.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, can you give us officers wearing body cams?  
BURGUAN: None of our officers have body cams. I don't know about the other agencies.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: With that much ammunition legally?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The child is that how the custody.  
BURGUAN: I'm not sure where the child is. I know, they had a 6-month- old child. I don't know exactly where she is. Brian.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you posses that much ammunition legally?  
BURGUAN: I don't think we have restrictions on the volume of ammunition. You may educate me on that but I'm not aware of any law that...   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Anything on the ammunition that was illegal other than...  
BURGUAN: Off hand, I'm not specifically aware of anything that was against the law there.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, can you tell us about the search of the Redland home, that what you're looking for, what else may have done, you said the ammunition  that help you and seeking a motive, and who lived there?   
BURGUAN: So, the suspect -- both suspects were listed on the rental agreement for the property. As I said yesterday, I don't know we can definitively say they  were living there or if they were living elsewhere and what exactly that house  was used for.    The house became a focus of the investigation based upon information that we had  from witnesses that identified him as an employee that was there that they  thought was potentially involved. It was follow-up that we had done connected to  that person that took us to that house, led us to that vehicle, which resulted  in us, in the following and pursuit and the shooting that happened.    Obviously, once we were involved in that, the house became a primary focus. So  we took our time in securing it, making sure we went in that house, we cleared  it safely. That's where we discovered the other pipe bombs. And I think some  other evidence, computer evidence, cell phones, things like that have been  recovered from there and various other places.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... is there any information that need...  
BURGUAN: I think there's a lot of helpful information we've gotten from a number of areas.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... meaning those people who gave you help, have they been able to provide you with any kind of accounting, and how many people were going  in and out of that house? Other than the two people who live there, is there a  pattern of men coming, going and all gone?   
BURGUAN: We're still working and trying. Obviously I think we've heard the rumors that you guys have heard. And we got the information. But I think we're  still trying to verify that. Keep in mind that I'm pretty careful that when I  come up here as I said yesterday, information that went out yesterday is likely  to change today and tomorrow and so on. I mean, already the wounded number has  changed.    I want to be as accurate as we possibly can. And a lot of that type of stuff  ends up being speculation. And you're saying I'd like to confirm it before we  say it.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... is there anything you can share or talk to us about what shed or what do you thinkwho they do...   
BURGUAN: So there's been a number of electronic items from thumb drives to computers and cell phones that have been taken. I don't think we've completed  the analysis. I don't them yet, so I don't know what if any they've actually  completed yet. Real quickly, David from FBI is here, he wants to -- he's got a  few comments. And let him do and then we'll come up and finish a few more  questions.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, was there any surveillance at the building? We want to know.   
BURGUAN: It's my understanding there was no specific surveillance that was inside the room where the shooting took place. We are, however, in possession of  surveillance cameras from the area and we're still going through that evidence.       
DAVID BOWDICH, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, FBI LOS ANGELES OFFICE: Good morning. I'm David Bowdich, the Assistant Director in charge of the FBI in Los Angeles. First  of all, I want to focus on two points. First off, again, our hearts and our  prayers are with the families of all these victims of these very heinous act.    Secondly, I ask you to be patient. We are trying to give you little bits as we  can, as we ascertain more and more facts. As you can tell by this investigation  and even the media response here today this is not your average investigation.  We have multiple scenes. We have many victims. And it will take time. There are  a tremendous number of assets and resources being applied to this investigation.    My focus as a fact finder who works for an organization that is really fixated  on facts is I would much rather be slower and correct with the information that  comes out to you than fast and incorrect. It's incredibly important for us.  Because the integrity of this investigation is absolutely paramount as far as we  are concerned, absent other than taking care of the victims.    So we are applying a number of federal resources. We are continuing to work  very, very carefully with our partners here at San Bernardino sheriff's  Department, San Bernardino City Police Department and the ATF. These resources  are being applied for a number of reasons. I give you an example of some things  we're doing today.     We flew in a team to do some -- from Washington to do some  re-enactment, reconstruction of the crime scene. We have continued collecting  evidence and are continuing to collecting evidence at the multiple scenes. We're  going to fly some evidence back to...   
