    
HIGHLIGHT: Day two of jury selection in the manslaughter trial of Baltimore police officer, William Porter, one of six officers, three black, three white,  facing charges in the death of Freddie Gray, who died in April a week after he  was injured while in police custody, so a fresh pool of 75 potential jurors is  being questioned today. Chicago's police chief, Gary McCarthy, has been fired  following protest and backlash over the fatal police shooting of a Chicago teen,  and Mayor Rahm Emanuel has asked for his resignation because the trust has been  shaken and eroded, and this follows the release of videotape of last year's  shooting death of Laquan McDonald that took more than a year for the video to  come out publicly. Just eight days before Laquan McDonald was killed by Chicago  police in October of 2014, another young black man was shot and killed by police  in Chicago, and Dorothy Holmes, the mother of that 25-year-old young man, Ronald  Johnson, is now fighting to get that dash cam video released. Republican  presidential front runner, Donald Trump, claims he saw thousands and thousands  of people in New Jersey cheering after the attacks on 9/11, 2011, and Rudy  Giuliani, mayor of New York City at the time, was asked what he saw that day.  While Trump remains on the top of the polls, two candidates have been in a slow  but steady rise, and they are both Cuban-American but that's just about where  the similarities end, and Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio are now taking aim at one  another.     
 BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR: In fact, two said they actually knew him.  
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: They did, indeed. So we have a jury pool much like we expected for the second day in a row. Mostly African-American, everybody  knew about the Freddie Gray case. They all were affected by the curfew. And all  except for one knew that the Gray family settled for $6.4 million with the city.  Clearly, this is going to present a huge problem for the prosecution and for the  judge in trying to get a jury sat. Yesterday, he came on the bench and said, in  a day or two, we're going to have a jury and a trial will start. Today, he came  on the bench in front of the other 75 potential jurors and said, maybe in a few  days we'll have a jury. So my sense is that this judge is now realizing it may  be more difficult than he even thought to get a jury in Baltimore City --  Brooke?   
BALDWIN: Miguel, stay with me, because you have been covering Baltimore since the beginning. I want you to join in the conversation.    But, Mel, I'm turning to you.    I have questions as far as why this case is the first case. But first, on the  questions, what sorts of questions are these jurors getting.   
MEL ROBBINS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Everything you can imagine. First of all, if you know Freddie Gray, you're off the jury immediately. You're not allowed to know  the parties. Secondly, you want to know, how did the riots affect you. What do  you think about the case? What are the things that you know about the case? The  more open ended questions the better. The reason why is because when you get  somebody talking you get them speaking in their own words. They are going to  start sharing things that they would never share in a yes or no question. What  is the prosecutor looking for and the defense looking for? They are looking for  people that can be impartial, that are not predisposed to think that the police  are bad or Freddie Gray was somehow not killed, that they can look at the facts  of the case and make an independent determination. The more they talk and answer  open-ended questions, the more likely you're going to hear something that will  allow you to challenge them as a juror.   
BALDWIN: When we were there in April, I remember it as these officers were charged, and one of the thoughts from smart legal minds was maybe one of the  officers will turn on the others and that would help the other cases. That said,  as they are trying to select jurors, is it too late for this first case to reach  a deal?   
ROBBINS: Absolutely not.  
BALDWIN: It's not?  
ROBBINS: No way.  
BALDWIN: Wow.  
ROBBINS: So first of all, this is my personal opinion. They typically, in a case where the cases are tried separately with multiple defendants, you pick the  strongest case you have first.   
BALDWIN: Better probability for conviction?  
ROBBINS: Absolutely. The reason why is if you get a conviction, that sends a message to everybody. In particular, it sends a message to the other five  defendants that there's a strong case against you. That might make certain  defendants turn on the other defendants and might make them plea and a whole  host of things happen. It also allows you to know by trying your strongest case  first what's the best way to lay the case out? Who are the best witnesses?  What's the most compelling way to lay the timeline out? This is a complicated  case with multiple actors that happened over a period of minutes. These are  officers, some of whom who knew Freddie Gray. There are so many nuances in this  case. So you better believe they picked the strongest case first.    And by the way, as they are trying a case, the other five officers are watching  intently. And there may be somebody that is thinking, oh, my gosh, I can't risk  this. I can't risk this. They said, if I testified against everybody else, then  I wouldn't go to jail or they won't charge me or they'll give me a deal that  keeps me out of jail. So I'm sure that everybody on the prosecution side is  still working that angle to try to turn somebody's state evidence. You have to  believe even though there has to be a lot of pressure to not turn on the  brotherhood of the fellow police department --   
BALDWIN: You never know how that can go.  
ROBBINS: -- you never know in those moments what somebody is thinking.  
BALDWIN: Mel Robbins, thank you very much.   And, Miguel Marquez, thank you so much, in Baltimore.    We'll be back at this tomorrow, I'm sure.    Coming up next, back to our breaking news. In Chicago today, the police chief  has been fired just a week after that dash cam video has been released showing a  police officer shooting and killing 17-year- old Laquan McDonald from last year.  Days before that shooting, another young black man was shot and killed by police  in Chicago. And the mother of that young man is now fighting to get that dash  cam video released. She will join me live with her story, next.   
 BALDWIN: Chicago's police chief has been fired following protests and backlash over the fatal police shooting of a Chicago teenager. Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel says he has asked for his resignation because the trust in the  police department has been -- his words -- "shaken and eroded." It follows the  release of videotape of last year's shooting death of 17-year-old Laquan  McDonald that took more than a year for the video to come out publicly.    And now, the mother in yet another Chicago young man's death says her son was  also killed by police. She's accusing the city of sitting on this tape.  25-year-old Ronald Johnson was gunned down just eight days before McDonald in  October of 2014.       
DOROTHY HOLMES, SON KILLED BY POLICE: And just got to stop you all covering up this murder. It's been over a year now that my son has been murdered and you all  still haven't did you all's jobs to convict of murder. Shouldn't nobody have to  go through this pain over their kids, because I'm quite sure they loved theirs  just as well as we loved ours. And my son is not here and he has a birthday  coming up in December 14th.       
 BALDWIN: And Ronald Johnson's mother, Dorothy Holmes, joins me now along with her attorney, Michael Oppenheimer.    So welcome to both of you.    And Ms. Holmes, I'm so sorry for the loss of your son.    If I may just begin with you, and ask you, what happened to Ronnie?   
HOLMES: He was killed by CPD on October 12, 2014, basically, 300 South Cane Drive.   
BALDWIN: Can you tell me more about what he was doing at that time, that day, what led to this?   
HOLMES: He was at a party over there in that neighborhood. And the car that he was in had had got shot up and he jumped out and ran, and in the process of him  running, he was murdered.   
BALDWIN: And you are accusing Chicago police of not only, you say, killing him, but sitting on the tape. Tell me why you think that.   
HOLMES: Yes. Because this happened a year ago and I've been fighting since then to get the video released and they still haven't released it.   
BALDWIN: What's the reason they have given you as far as why they haven't released it.   
MICHAEL OPPENHEIMER, ATTORNEY FOR RONALD JOHNSON FAMILY: If I can maybe jump in on that.   
BALDWIN: Please do.  
OPPENHEIMER: We filed a federal civil rights lawsuit after the shooting and the killing of Ronald Johnson. Immediately, the city went in and obtained a  protective order from the federal judge asking that the video not be released. I  then filed a Freedom of Information Request to get the video that was denied by  the Chicago Police Department and the city. We have since filed a FOIA, a  Freedom of Information Act lawsuit to get the video released. The city and the  police have been blocking us at every step. They don't want this video released.  They sat on this eight days prior to the McDonald shooting, and here we are  again, same old story, covering this up. And all they have done is tried to keep  this quiet so the public can't see it. So the people that need to see this to  know what's going on in this police department can't see it.   
BALDWIN: So here you are both of you fighting to have the tape of Ronald released and his death that night last year.    And, Dorothy, to you, now you see this video of Laquan's death. Have you watched  the video?   
HOLMES: Have I watched which video?  
BALDWIN: Not the video of your son that you're trying to have released, but the video of Laquan that was killed after your son, when he was shot 16 times.   
HOLMES: I -- I couldn't watch it after I seen the first shots when he went down. I couldn't watch it no more after that.   
BALDWIN: Explain the emotions you were feeling especially after going through what you did days before with your own son?   
HOLMES: It brought back a lot of memories and it brought back memories to what I had think on the tape of my son.   
BALDWIN: Michael, we want to get the Chicago police's side. We've reached out to Chicago Order of Police. We have gotten nothing from them so far, although their  spokesperson has told other outlets that, since the shooting, that Dorothy's  son, that he had a gun and that he pointed his gun at officers before he was  shot. I know you disagree. You tell me your version of events, please, sir.   
OPPENHEIMER: This night this happened, the Chicago Police Department issued a statement through their spokesman that said, as they always do at these police  shootings, that he turned and pointed a gun, that they feared for their safety,  so the officer fired for his protection and the protection of others. That was  before they saw the video. The video is very clear in that, number one, he does  not have any weapon in his hand or anything in his hand. He is running full  speed away from the police. The officer got out of his car, took three steps,  aimed towards Ronald's back and fired five shots. Two of those struck him. One  went through the back and severed the juggler vein and went out through his eye  socket. The police say then say that when he fell, they recovered a gun from his  right hand. First of all, he never turned and pointed anything. He never even  turned, and that's clear on the video. Since then the police have changed their  story about him turning. They have been caught in a bundle of lies. The lies  keep continuing. There's no way that that gun was in his hand. There was nothing  in his hand. We are alleging and we believe and it's clear they planted that gun  after he was executed by Officer Hernandez.   
 BALDWIN: Dorothy, if I may end with you. From a mother's perspective, I know you're trying to get this video released publicly, but now knowing that  the top cop is out today, what do you want? What does justice look like for your  son from your city?   
HOLMES: We got McCarthy out of there. Now we want Alvarez gone. And we want Rahm Emanuel gone. Because it shouldn't have took a year for them to look at the  tapes to see that these cops are not good cops, as they are supposed to be. And  I'm going to keep fighting until I get this dash cam footage of my son being  murdered released.   
BALDWIN: Dorothy Holmes, let's talk about again when that happens.   Michael Oppenheimer, thank you so much.    To both of you --   
OPPENHEIMER: Thank you.  
BALDWIN: -- thank you.   Turning next here to politics, Donald Trump claims he saw thousands and  thousands of people in New Jersey cheering after the attacks on 9/11, 2011. Rudy  Giuliani, mayor of New York City at the time, CNN asked him what he saw that  day. His response, next.    And Ted Cruz says most violent felons are Democrats. And he doesn't stop there.  What the rising Republican said about condoms, birth control, and what he did in  college.       
 ALISYN CAMEROTA, CO-ANCHOR, NEW DAY: Why is Donald Trump allowed to say things that had you said that when you were running for president, what  would have happened?       
RUDY GIULIANI,, FORMER MAYOR OF NEW YORK CITY: I would have been thrown out of the race. He is judged by a different standard. Maybe it's because of his  background of on "The Apprentice," an entertainer, and the fact that all -- he's  been a big personality. He almost like speaks in headlines. Gets your attention.  And then a lot of the points aren't very substantive, but the headline --       
BALDWIN: Rudy Giuliani reacting to claims, some of which are free of fact.   While Trump remains on the top of the polls, two candidates have been in a slow  but steady rise. Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz, they are both Cuban-American. Both  former lawyers-turned-freshman-U.S. Senators. But that's just about where the  similarities end. As they rise, they are taking aim at one another.    So to discuss this and a lot more, let me bring in Jamie Weinstein, senior  editor of "The Daily Caller"; and David Chalian, CNN political director.    So great to have you both on.    David Chalian, let me take it to you first.    When you look at these two, the glove seems to be coming off. Why? What's  changed?   
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: I think if you ask any Republican operative, campaign manager out there, when they look at the total field here,  the establishment believes that, at the end of the day, Cruz and Rubio are going  to be two of the final Republicans standing in this contest. I think if you talk  to both of those campaigns, Brooke, they are keenly aware of that and they're  keeping a very watchful eye on each other, and they are doing this shadow boxing  that's now getting more engaged as we head to the end of the year and we're two  months away from the voting beginning. If you look today, Ted Cruz is taking on  Marco Rubio over what he calls Rubio's quote, "military adventurism." In an  interview in "Bloomberg News," he's going after Rubio for being hawkish on  foreign policy and trying to appeal to the more Libertarian streak in the party  that is normally Rand Paul's base. And that's just one place they are fighting  on.   
BALDWIN: They are fighting over, Jamie, immigration, national security, their records, but when you look at the polling and look state specific, Cruz is  searching in Iowa, Rubio, not so much. Why?   
JAMIE WEINSTEIN, SENIOR EDITOR, THE DAILY CALLER: He has cultivated that in Iowa trying to cultivate that evangelical community. Rubio, it is his first extended  stay was last week. But what we're seeing is what David said, these contenders  have run excellent campaigns and they see them emerging as that second tier,  right below Donald Trump and Ben Carson, and they believe they have a chance to  really take this thing. So they are trying to differentiate themselves on  immigration, foreign policy, spying programs, to try to appeal, and paint the  other one as moderate or out of touch with the Republican base. They see a real  battle for the nomination. It will come down perhaps to them or maybe them and  Donald Trump and Ben Carson 
. BALDWIN: And we'll get to that and to your recentarticle, Jamie, in just a second.   But, David Chalian, to you, if we're talking about how these could be some of  the final few standing, and if Cruz is doing well in Iowa, where and how does  Rubio really break out?   
CHALIAN: It's a great question. Obviously, not all things are exactly equal when you look at each candidate's strategy. Ted Cruz has bet everything on Iowa as  the catapult for him. Marco Rubio placing bets more evenly. I will say this.  Marco Rubio doesn't necessarily need to outright win one of those two first  early states. What he needs to do is win the establishment lane, Brooke. If he  is the guy that comes out on top of John Kasich, Jeb Bush, Chris Christie, and  is seen as the establishment lane winner in those early states, that will propel  him forward in this contest.   
BALDWIN: So if you have Rubio on one end and maybe Ted Cruz in the middle and Trump on one end, although they have been vying for the similar base. Jamie, in  your piece in "The Daily Caller," you lead with, "If Donald Trump wins the  Republican nomination, some of the most prominent conservative voices say they  would find it difficult if not impossible to support him." So if they can't  bring themselves to vote for Trump and aren't voting for Hillary Clinton, what's  their plan, Jamie?   
 WEINSTEIN: I spoke to Bill Krystal of the "Weekly Standard" and he said you have to find someone to run as a protest candidate, maybe a third party  candidate, because he can't support Donald Trump whether it's over his kind of  nasty rhetoric on the campaign trail, his positions, which in many ways are to  the left of center and has been historically, so they can't support a guy that  goes around acting the way he's acted, calling John McCain not a hero. So  they're going to have to find an alterative. And there's a lot of these guys.  The question is whether these elite opinion makers, these kinds of Washington  wise men, who write columns and edit magazines, will matter in terms of  Republican voters, grassroots voters. Will they abandon Trump if he's the  nominee? That's a different question altogether.   
BALDWIN: That will be a whole other conversation we may be having in a couple months.    Jamie Weinstein and David Chalian, thank you both very much.    On politics today, coming up next, this week, after being elected, a big city  mayor has been found dead. Police say he did not commit suicide and now they are  trying to figure out what happened and why in this mystery.   
