    
HIGHLIGHT: Leaders from around the world are meeting in Paris with a lofty goal to tackle climate change. Hear why they say the stakes have never been so high;  Plus, new information on where a key suspect in the Paris terror attacks could  be. And the man accused of shooting and killing three people at the U.S. women's  clinic makes his first court appearance wearing a padded vest; It is 9:00 a.m.  in Paris right now where the second full day of the COP 21 Climate Change Summit  will soon begin, 150 leaders from around the world are in the French capital,  and their goal is ambitious and historic to produce the first-ever  legally-binding, universally-applicable plan to combat global warming; In 2009,  attempts to reach a similar agreement at the climate conference in Copenhagen  failed, meaning all eyes will be on COP 21 for a lasting solution; The World  Bank has ranked the worst countries for carbon dioxide emissions. That's the  primary greenhouse gas responsible for global warming; Indonesian officials say  both technical failures and pilot error brought down Air Asia Flight 8501, the  report released just last hour, found a series of system malfunctions occurred  in the plane, but it was ultimately the pilot's incorrect response to those  failures that resulted in the crash; Republican Presidential candidate Donald  Trump met with more than 100 black pastors on Monday. Some of them arriving  here, there was plenty of confusion and controversy surrounding the meeting, but  Trump true to form called it is a huge success; Chicago's Mayor is expected to  announce an accountability task force for city police Tuesday, this as an  officer who's been charged with murder just posted bail; Earlier at the Climate  Change Summit, French President Francois Hollande said the stakes have never  been higher to protect the future of the planet and the future of life; To an  unsettling mystery on Japan's coast now, Several wooden boats have drifted  ashore filled with decaying bodies. Coast guard officials are trying to find out  where they came from and what happened to those onboard; Dubai's Burj Khalifa,  the world's tallest building could someday be stripped of its title. Saudi  Arabia has plans to build a one kilometer high skyscraper called the Jeddah  Tower; Amazon released new footage of its drone delivery service and people have  been quick to go over every detail of the latest video.         
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL NEWSROOM HOST: Leaders from around the world are meeting in Paris with a lofty goal to tackle climate change. Hear why they  say the stakes have never been so high.    Plus, new information on where a key suspect in the Paris terror attacks could  be. And the man accused of shooting and killing three people at the U.S. women's  clinic makes his first court appearance wearing a padded vest.    Hello and welcome to our viewers from the United States and all around the  world. I am Rosemary Church. Thank you for joining us. This is CNN Newsroom.    It is 9:00 a.m. in Paris right now where the second full day of the COP 21  Climate Change Summit will soon begin, 150 leaders from around the world are in  the French capital, and their goal is ambitious and historic to produce the  first-ever legally-binding, universally- applicable plan to combat global  warming. It would be a more comprehensive and legally enforced successor to the  Kyoto Protocol which expires in 2020 and excludes top greenhouse gas emitting  countries.    In 2009, attempts to reach a similar agreement at the climate conference in  Copenhagen failed, meaning all eyes will be on COP 21 for a lasting solution. We  go to Paris now where Phil Black joins us for the latest on the summit. So Phil,  the big question, can all these nations of the world draw up a historic  agreement to dramatically cut carbon emissions. And now what happens now on day  two?   
PHIL BLACK, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rosemary, at the end on of this long two-week process, they'll come up with something. The key issue is whether it would be  good enough, is it really going to make a difference? What we have seen over the  opening 24 hours is this parade of political will with the world's leaders  coming here, declaring their intention to fix climate change. They believe that  it's a major problem, giving it their will and their support. But they're going  to start leaving town over the next day or to so, leaving behind ministers,  negotiators, who have to work out the details. What each of these countries is  prepared to do to curb emissions and tackle climate change in various ways.    The understanding is, those pledges taken together will not reach what is  considered the ultimate goal of this process, and that is, limiting global  climate increases to an average of two degrees Celsius by the end of the  century. That's not going to happen here. They hope they can lock these in.  Through an agreement that can be improved with time. But within that, there's  still a lot of detail that needs to be worked out. Like that issue whether or  not this should be legally binding. The United States says, no way.    Whatever they come up with at the end of this process it's not going to keep  everyone happy. For example, President Obama today will be spending time with  the leaders of small island nations, the ones most vulnerable to climate change.  These countries believe that two-degree increase in temperature is still far too  much and still threatens their very existence. They're not happy with that as a  target. Ultimately it will be a compromise, but hopefully, the intention is that  it will be something that's strong enough to build on and make more ambitious  over time in the future, Rosemary.   
CHURCH: There's certainly an incredible amount of optimism, isn't there, and Phil, as you mentioned the leaders will leave, it will be up to the officials to  work on this from here on. Of course, there's going to be this major challenge,  this tussle between the developed world and the developing nations that are  trying to strike some sort of balance between their need to grow industry and  their economy but also keep in mind cutting down carbon emissions. Talk to us  about that challenge.       
BLACK: That's always been perhaps the most divisive issue in the ongoing climate talks. Between the developed world, wealthy countries that have become wealthy  through burning fossil fuels and those developing countries that haven't  contributed to the problem, but still want the right to develop, grow their  economy, improve their citizens' quality of life so on and so forth. Part of  this is negotiating a fund, about $100 billion a year. That's the goal from 2020  -- the wealthy countries will contribute in order to help poorer countries deal  with the consequences of climate change, because these are the countries that  are most vulnerable to that.    But as I said, also help them develop and grow a low carbon economy that helps  their people and improves their way of life also. They agreed on the figure,  $100 billion a year figure, it's an extraordinary number that's expected to get  bigger with time. What this money comes from will be a mix of government donated  money, multilateral organizations, all taken together to try and come up with  this figure. It's without the doubt one of the great challenges of the next two  weeks here, Rosemary.   
CHURCH: Certainly is, Phil Black staying on top of all the issues there, joining us live from Paris. Many thanks to you The World Bank has ranked the worst  countries for carbon dioxide emissions. That's the primary greenhouse gas  responsible for global warming. China is by far the biggest emitter of CO2,  releasing more than 8 million kilotons in 2010, the U.S. is number two, followed  by India and Russia, CNN's Matt Rivers went to one of China's most polluted  cities for a closer look.       
MATT RIVERS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: These are streets choked with pollution, thick enough to see, to burn your eyes, to leave an acrid taste in your mouth. This is  the most polluted city in China. Josh Wong grew up here. He's raising his young  son here. The air they breathe is always on his mind.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When the pollution gets really serious, we can't even see the buildings next to us.   
RIVERS: Like thousands of others here he gets ready for work each morning and then heads out into the haze, as a coal power plant churns out toxins above. He  works in the energy sector, although his factory hopes to make coal obsolete.  Business is booming. The company says they have plans to more than double their  current capacity by 2020.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I believe there will be a large increase in renewable energy industry, no matter what solar power, wind power, or others.   
RIVERS: In 2014, Chinese companies invested over 80 billion U.S. dollars in renewable energy projects. No country in the world invested more, and yet  despite all of that, renewable energy accounts for only 10 percent or so of  China's energy supply. This is a country where coal remains king. It's a major  pollutant. It's also cheap and efficient. Because of that, it accounts between  60 percent and 70 percent of China's energy supply. Coal use actually slowed in  2014, but the country still consumes nearly as much as the rest of the world  combined.    China is the world's largest greenhouse gas emitter, but the government has said  its emissions will peak by 2030. To hit that goal, they'll need the help of  companies likeand workers like Josh Wong.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I am very concerned about my son's health, he says, if the pollution stays like this, he'll never be allowed to leave the house.   
RIVERS: So he hopes his work will help make things better so his son won't be afraid to take a deep breath.       
CHURCH: And Matt River joins us now live. And we looked behind you there, just extraordinary, when you look at the smog and what people have to deal with  day-to-day, and of course what is really, really stands out here is the timing  of this, because we say that in the background, we see what's happening across  China and at the same time, the President is there in Paris, trying to work out  this legally- binding document on reducing carbon emissions.        So talk to us about how people are handling this, and if we can pan out and  maybe get a bigger shot of what's going on behind you there.   
RIVERS: Well, if we can pan to the side here, you can show the buildings here to my right, you can see that really those buildings are only about 200 meters from  where we are right now, but you can see that how bad the pollution remains here  in Beijing. This is something that people here have been dealing with now for  several days now, since Friday really, the smog first came in and it really  .   
CHURCH: All right, clearly we're having some technical problems getting Matt up there. We did get there -- it was just enough to see the situation there in  Beijing. It's critical. Smog there is unbelievable. But that's what they're  working at the COP 21 in Paris. Of course, the Climate Change Conference is  taking place under heavy security as the investigation into the Paris attacks is  ongoing. Jim Sciutto reports on new information about the key terror suspect who  survived.       
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The Street behind the Bataclan Concert Hall, sight of some of the bloodshed and most desperate escapes of the Paris attacks  is now open again, with bullet holes marking the walls. Still, one of the chief  architects of the carnage, alleged eighth attacker Salah Abdeslam remains on the  loose. They're looking that he escaped to Syria, sources tell CNN.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If he made it over land from France to Turkey, it would be very easy for him to get into Syria, saying he could have done that via Greece.  All of that is possible and it's very little control over those borders.   
SCIUTTO: Still, it would be an alarming escape by Europe's most wanted man. His last known whereabouts were in Belgium, where security officials have carried  out dozens of raids in search of him and others suspected parties. The Chairman  of the House Homeland Security Committee says authorities are getting closer.   
MICHAEL MCCAUL, CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE HOMELAND SECURITY COMMITTEE: Do you think they're closing in on him? That's the good news. There are many involved in this  plot, this is very sophisticated plot.   
SCIUTTO: Investigators are now piecing together the terrorists' movements before the November 13th attack. French police say Abdeslam bought 10 detonators and  batteries from a work shop on Paris' northern outskirts. The store manager  alerting authorities after the police publicized his arrest warrant.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Basically, what we're dealing with is a trail that's gone cold, and they're looking for any kind of clue, people that he met, anybody that  has possibly seen the suspect, that's going to be the key to finding him.   
SCIUTTO: Now new information that the terrorists were planning even more bloodshed. The Paris attackerstell CNN had other targets "Ready to  go," including transportation networks, schools and Jewish targets. An echo of  the January attack on a kosher market following the deadly shooting at the  offices of Charlie Hebdo, Jim Sciutto, CNN, Washington.       
CHURCH: Indonesian officials say both technical failures and pilot error brought down Air Asia Flight 8501, the report released just last hour, found a series of  system malfunctions occurred in the plane, but it was ultimately the pilot's  incorrect response to those failures that resulted in the crash. Aviation  Correspondent Richard Quest has the details.       
RICHARD QUEST, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: There were a series of technical failures on the Air Asia A-320. Highly technical concerning the so called  augmentation computers, and they created a crisis in the cockpit. However, the  actual cause of the plane stalling was the way the pilot then responded to that,  and in the words of the -- of the report, it was the way the pilot manually flew  the plane which eventually led to the plane crashing. The facts are slightly  different, but the theory in principle is very similar to what we saw with Air  France 447, where you have a technical failure but the pilot's response  eventually leads to the plane crashing.       
CHURCH: CNN's Richard Quest reporting there. And the report is the first official explanation given to the families of the victims.        Investigators in Colorado are trying to figure out what triggered an attack at a  women's clinic, what the suspected gunman told them after the shooting. That's  ahead.   
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump met with more than 100 black pastors on Monday. Some of them arriving here,  there was plenty of confusion and controversy surrounding the meeting, but Trump  true to form called it is a huge success. Now, Sara Murray has details on the  closed-door meeting.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I saw love in that room. I saw love everywhere I go.   
SARA MURRAY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Despite walking back what his campaign had originally promoted as an endorsement event with 100 black pastors, Donald Trump  emerged calling today's closed-door meeting a success.   
TRUMP: We actually didn't think we were going to be having a press conference, but we all thought that it was a good meeting and we have many, many  endorsements that came out of the meeting.   
MURRAY: In the lead up to today's get together, several of the pastors invited said they had no intention of backing the GOP front- runner, or even attending a  meet and greet.   
PAUL MORTON, CHANGING A GENERATION: If you talk down to women, if you talk down to documented immigrants, calling them rapists, and then black lives -- get them  out of here, no, you can't represent me. So, I don't even need to hear your  platform.       
MURRAY: Victor Cousins said he came to talk with Trump, nothing more.  
VICTOR COUSINS: It's really incumbent upon me to take advantage of the opportunity to query him about what we could expect from a Trump administration.  I am not here to endorse Mr. Trump. I am here to have a dialogue.   
MURRAY: The pastors' caution and outright criticism comes as Trump faces scrutiny for re-tweeting a racially charged message, and suggesting a black  lives matter protester deserved to be roughed up at a Trump campaign rally.  Others attending today's meeting said they would attempt to convince their  colleagues to support Trump.   
STEPHEN PARSON, RICHMOND CHRISTIAN CENTER: Anybody knows that Donald Trump personally knows that he's not a racist, he's provided more jobs for minorities,  for Mexicans, for African-Americans, he's exactly what not only the  African-American community needs, but what America needs.   
MURRAY: Today, Trump seemed undeterred by the change in plan.  
TRUMP: They didn't ask me to change the tone. I think they want to see victory, because ultimately it's about we want to win and we want to win together.   
MURRAY: Meanwhile, Trump continues to face scrutiny for repeatedly insisting that he saw large crowds of Muslim-Americans celebrating in New Jersey on 9/11.   
TRUMP: I have had hundreds and hundreds of calls and tweets of people that saw it, and plenty of people saw it.   
MURRAY: Now Trump may not have picked up the 100 endorsements he was hoping for, but he still picked up a couple before he came down to Georgia where he got the  crowd roaring with his attacks on Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders, and most of  his GOP rivals, Sara Murray, CNN, Macon, Georgia.       
CHURCH: The suspect accused of a deadly shooting at a Colorado women's clinic has made his first court appearance, Robert Dear is expected to face  first-degree murder charges that could carry the death penalty if he's  convicted. Three people were killed in Friday's shooting.    Now the shooting in Colorado comes during a Presidential race, where abortion is  a hot-button issue, CNN's Randi Kaye shows us what some Republican candidates  have said about Planned Parenthood.       
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The undercover recordings set off a fire storm, with many calling to de-fund Planned Parenthood. Some of the loudest voices,  Republican candidate for President, candidate Mike Huckabee told a radio host  that it's the worst thing he's seen since Nazi, Germany.   
MIKE HUCKABEE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: To watch this women talk about selling baby parts, specifically the lungs, the heart, the livers, the lower  extremities, and how to use the forceps as to not to crush them and damage the  parts when the baby has already been murdered.   
KAYE: At CNN's GOP debate in September, more anger-filled rhetoric, an impassioned Carly Fiorina.   
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What a fully formed fetus on the table, its heart beating, its legs kicking. While someone says we have to keep it alive  to harvest its brain.   
KAYE: The trouble is in this case, that wasn't a video of an aborted fetus, but a stillborn child. The citizen journalist working with the group who made the  video, Center for Medical Progress told CNN that while he does believe Planned  Parenthood sold fetal tissue, he did get creative with the video, admitting that  is was edited, a critical detail that seemed to be lost on all of the GOP  candidates, Senator Ted Cruz calling Planned Parenthood a criminal enterprise,  funded by $500 million of taxpayer money.   
TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This Planned Parenthood videos are horrifying. I would encourage every American to watch these videos. Selling the body parts  of human beings and then ask yourself, are these my values.   
KAYE: Donald Trump also raising concern, appearing on Laura Ingram's show.  
TRUMP: It's like an abortion factory. But those videos are horrible. Every time you see them they get worse and worse.   
KAYE: Candidate Jeb Bush re-tweeted a post about the videos, calling it a shocking and horrific remainder of culture of life in America. But strong words  for Republican critics, writing, it's offensive and outrageous that some  politicians are now claiming this tragedy has nothing to do with the toxic  environment they helped create. Randi Kaye, CNN, New York.   
CHURCH: Chicago's Mayor is expected to announce an accountability task force for city police Tuesday, this as an officer who's been  charged with murder just posted bail. His charge comes more than a year after  dash cam video captured him shooting 17-year-old Laquan McDonald. That video has  sparked outrage in the community, as protesters allege city leaders tried to  hide it.        A high stakes summit, an ambitious ambition agenda, coming up, a live report  from the Climate Change Conference in Paris, we're back in a moment.   
CHURCH: A warm welcome back to our viewers here in the United States and all around the world. I am Rosemary Church. I want to update you on the stories we  have been following this hour. Indonesian officials say both technical issues  and pilot error brought down Air Asia Flight 8501. They found that the pilot  responded incorrectly to a series of system malfunctions resulting in the crash  last December. All 162 people onboard that plane were killed.    World leaders have just started their second day of the COP 21 Climate Summit.  You're looking at live pictures here. French President Francois Hollande is at  the welcoming ceremony of climate challenges and African solutions. Now,  afterwards, U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki Moon will speak on renewable energy in  Africa.    A Chicago police officer charged with murder for fatally shooting a teenager has  posted bail, this comes more than a year after dash cam video captures the  teen's final moment and led to the officer's charge.        The U.S. embassy in the Afghan capital of Kabul is assessing -- credible reports  of an imminent attack in the city, the embassy didn't release many details, on  that the threat for a possible attack in the next 48 hours.    Well, earlier at the Climate Change Summit, French President Francois Hollande  said the stakes have never been higher to protect the future of the planet and  the future of life. With the summit coming on the heels of the terror attacks in  Paris, Mr. Hollande said both challenges must be addressed. Take a listen.       
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE, FRENCH PRESIDENT: I am not choosing between the fight against terrorism and the fight against global warming. These two are major global  challenges that we must overcome. Because we must leave our children more than a  world free of terror.   
CHURCH: All right, want to go back to Paris now where Phil Black joins us with the latest on the summit. It is 9:30 in the morning there in  Paris. So, Phil, we have seen what has come out of the first day of the COP 21  summit, what can we expect from the second day as the leaders arrive and settle  in?   
BLACK: Well, Rosemary, one of the more interesting things that will be taking place today, President Obama moving meeting with leaders of small island  nations, countries that feel that their very existence is most threatened by the  consequences of climate change, notably sea level rise, and these are countries  that think this conference has not been ambitious enough. Not enough to ensure  their continued existence. They think 1.5 degrees should be the appropriate goal  here. Even the two-degree goal is not going to be met. We know the pledges  countries have made coming into these talks although significant, although  they're estimated to make a significant difference in keeping down global  temperature rise, they won't keep it within those two-degree limit.    What it shows and getting a sense throughout the two weeks here, really the  overall process is it's a compromise. They're trying to reach a consensus on an  agreement making significant steps toward fighting climate change, but would  ultimately simply be just a first step. For all the optimism and good will and  the real desire to make a difference, more so than any other climate change  process like this. They're expected to be an agreement. But everyone is here of  the understanding I think that this is just going to be first step that will  allow greater improvement and more ambition to be built into it in the years  ahead.   
CHURCH: And Phil, you talked about that optimism and that is what we're hearing from this summit, are there any skeptics there, though, in the mix there of  leaders from the various nations across the globe?   
BLACK: Not really, no, not -- I think what people are arguing here and there are some points of difference, but it's with the nuance, people who have come here  believe climate change is a major problem and that it does to a significant  degree threaten the future way of life, everyone. What they disagree on is in  the detail and the degree to which they as individual nations should be called  upon to act against it. There is this divide between the developed world and the  developing world. The developed world acknowledges that it's largely responsible  for creating the problem for burning fossil fuels. The developing world hasn't  really contributed to the problem, still wants to grow, develop economically and  in the one of the great ironies of climate change, these poorer, less developed  countries are expected to bear the brunt of the consequences that come with it.    There's the issue between the right of develop and grow. And to some extent,  India's a notable example they still need fossil fuels within their energy mix.  While also committing to solar power as a long term answer and contributor if  you like, they're also contributing to coal that makes a lot of people  uncomfortable. These are the differences that are taking place here. But what  sets these talks apart is that it does have this sense of being global or  perhaps universal in the sense that it applies to all countries, with the real  belief that they want to contribute and that they believe there is a problem and  through working together, there can be a solution, Rosemary.       
CHURCH: Phil Black reporting there from Paris. It's 9:34 in the morning. We're watching those live pictures there as the leaders get under way there, the  second day, of course, our Phil Black will be monitoring what happens on this  day, many thanks to you, Phil.    New report released on Monday shows just how bad it may be getting for parts of  China. If nothing is done to curb the impact of climate change, our  Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri joins us in the International Weather Center, he's  been having a look at this. Explain to us just how bad the situation is there.  We saw the pictures live from Beijing and just how thick that smog is. It's a  constant problem for that nation.   
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST: This report, Rosemary, fascinating it was a 900-page report involving 550 scientists. They analyzed the temperatures on our  planet, since the 1900, has warmed up on one degree Celsius. Two degree Celsius  is concerning when it comes to irreversible damage to our planet. We know the  forecast if nothing is done, we may get up to two-degree Celsius. In China that  could it take it up to 3 degree Celsius. We have observed that, the largest sea  levels, parts of northern Australia and making our way to Madagascar. What  happens when you take this all of this into consideration, with a one centimeter  rise in sea levels, an explanation of growth, and the increase in sea levels.  Bring that up to 10 centimeters, in parts of China, in Shanghai in particular,  it will be submerged and push the water into the city 140 meters away from the  coastline and creating another coastline.    Certainly they're watching very carefully when it comes to climate change and  what's happening there. The other big story is the incredible pollution taking  place across this region. Look at the satellite imagery. Fascinating to see  what's happening down on the surface. You can see the smog in place, the fog  very easy to pick out as well, just south of that region and the mountain snows  just north of this region. All of this, the pollutants are trapped right there.  So we know in this part of China in recent decades the pollution has led to a  concerning area that life expectancy have dropped 5 1/2 years.    At this point, we're sitting at 588 air quality index, that's beyond index. Lot  of people kind of look at this number and typically in the overnight hours, even  in recent days, the pollutants begin to drop. Look at this. At midnight in the  past 24 hours, it only dropped down just below to the very unhealthy index, when  it opens up it goes beyond index.   
CHURCH: Certainly some unsettling numbers there. And descriptions there and that's why the President of China is there in Paris trying to work out some  solutions with other world leaders, many thanks to Pedram Javaheri, appreciate  it.    Russia is deploying some massive military technology in Syria, see why U.S.  Officials are so concerned with the possible implications. That is next.       
CHURCH: Welcome back. Well, Russia is making a military move in Syria that has U.S. officials wondering how to react. CNN's Barbara Starr reports.       
BARBARA STARR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A major escalation, that's what one U.S. military official calls Russia's latest battlefield move. The Russians have now  activated this massive air defense missile system in western Syria, the S-400.   
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT: We need to have security for our air force, and that's why we have activated the S-400 system.   
STARR: Leaving the U.S. trying to figure out what to do next.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The S-400 is one of the most capable air defense systems in the world. It's got significant capabilities that will enhance Russia's ability  not only to defend its air assets, but also it will serve Russia's interest of  serving Syria's air space.   
STARR: From its location at western Syria, the missile has the capability to track and shoot at airplanes all the way to the air base in Turkey, U.S.  officials say. But for now, the U.S. is counting on the fact that Russia has no  intention of attacking U.S. war planes. The Pentagon believes that from Lattakia  Air Base, in fact the Russian radars would have a hard time reaching over the  mountain range to the east, still U.S. war planes could be at the risk of an  accidental shoot down as they fly over Turkey.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're going to have to alter their tactics, and at the very least coordinate with the Russians to make sure they don't get shot down by the  S-400.   
STARR: And since the shoot down of the Russia aircraft by Turkey, it appears the Turks are steering well clear of Russian aircraft. The State Department publicly  backing up Turkey's assertions the Russians were in its airspace, but still  holding the door open for the reconciliation with the Russians if Moscow agrees  to fight ISIS.   
ELIZABETH TRUDEAU, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN: Our view has been very clear on where we like to see Russia in terms of this broader scope. We're  stepping up a step. If our objective are the same and if Russia is committed to  the counter-ISIS fight, then that's the conversation we're going to have.       
CHURCH: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had hoped to meet with President Vladimir Putin one on one while both were in Paris for the climate change talks,  but the Kremlin says that meeting will not happen. Mr. Putin disputes Turkey's  claim that the Russian jet was flying in Turkish airspace. On Monday, the body  of the Russian pilot killed in last weeks incident was returned to Russia.    We want to bring in CNN Correspondent Ian Lee now to discuss this. He joins me  from Istanbul in Turkey. So, Ian, as we just reported Turkey had hoped that  Russia's President would meet with his Turkish counterpart at the Climate Change  Summit. Where does this leave any fence-mending efforts on the part of Turkey  and what will likely happen next?   
IAN LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rosemary, they are scheduled to meet in Moscow on December 15th, President Erdogan is going to be traveling to Moscow, but we do  not know if that trip is going to go ahead. But we're hearing in this past 24  hours is this war of words between Putin and Erdogan. Russia saying that Turkey  is receiving oil from ISIS, saying that the area where they shot down the  Russian plane is where some of this oil from ISIS is coming through and that the  Turks were protecting that oil supply line. Well, Erdogan came out sharply  against that, saying that it couldn't be further from the truth that they get  their gas from legal sources.    In fact, he called on Putin to show the evidence that Turkey is getting oil from  ISIS and added that if they are, that Erdogan would resign if they could prove  that Turkey was getting oil from ISIS, and he challenged Putin to back up his  claims.       
CHURCH: That's an astounding development indeed. While that's playing out, of course, we know that Russia plans to apply economic sanctions to Turkey, do we  have any details on how long they're likely to stay in place?   
LEE: They seem very open-ended at this point. The Russians haven't given them an outdate, a deadline, it seems as long as this conflict between the two continues  as this war of words and this tension continues, these economic sanctions will  continue as well. Lot of them are supposed to start at the beginning of the  year, and they're wide-ranging, they hit from Turks unable to go to Russia with  visa- free, which will hurt business, businessmen trying to do business across  borders. It's also going to hurt Turks who try to get jobs inside of Russia, but  also hitting the tourism sector very hard.    About four million Russians come here a year. And without that money, these  sanctions could hit millions and billions of dollars. It doesn't look like  either leader is going to back down. Both are looking for an apology and neither  wants to say I'm sorry.   
CHURCH: That seems like to be the case, Ian Lee reporting there from Istanbul, Turkey, staying on top of the latest developments, many thanks to you.    An unsettling mystery on Japan's shores, at least eight wooden boats have been  found, each carrying a gruesome cargo. We're back in a moment.       
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone, to an unsettling mystery on Japan's coast now. Several wooden boats have drifted ashore filled with decaying bodies. Coast  guard officials are trying to find out where they came from and what happened to  those onboard.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Difficulties of anybody living in Japan, the economic conditions remain poor...       
CHURCH: That is a chilling and horrifying story. We'll continue to follow that.   Dubai's Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building could someday be stripped of  its title. Saudi Arabia has plans to build a one kilometer high skyscraper  called the Jeddah Tower. It will have 200 floors and overlook the Red Sea, it's  being built on a deep foundation to prevent salt damage from the nearby sea, and  will change shape every few floors to withstand dangerous winds. It's scheduled  to be finished by 2020, the price tag, $1.23 billion, wow.    Well, Amazon released new footage of its drone delivery service and people have  been quick to go over every detail of the latest video. Our Jeannie Moos  on her own.   
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: On Amazon's latest peek at their drone the dog hits a kids' shoe. Send in the drone.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This one can fly for 15 miles.  
MOOS: It's still billed as 30-minute delivery. But since Amazon introduced its first prototype two years ago, things have changed. People are practically going  over the Amazon teaser trailer with a magnifying glass. They take off and land  the same way, like a helicopter. But the new version has eight rather than four  propellers.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It becomes a streamlined and fast airplane.  
MOOS: The drone can do around 55 miles per hour.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It uses sense and avoids technology, to sense and avoid obstacles on the ground and in air.   
MOOS: But it seems unsuited for cities, preferring a nice, big backyard. Unlike Amazon's, Google's experimental drones have used a line to lower their packages  to the ground. How close is Amazon to deploying drones? A senior exec told Fox  Business...   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think we're ready to go as soon as we get those regulatory hurdles cleared 
. MOOS: Those are high hurdles. There are lots of issues.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People trying to take them down and steal the contents which of course, because people are terrible that would happen.   
MOOS: What are you boys doing? Hunting for Christmas presents, and don't let the dog sink his teeth into the drone. It seems like drone delivery has gone to our  heads.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They said less than 30 minutes.  
MOOS: Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.      
CHURCH: Consider yourself up to date. Thanks for watching CNN. I am Rosemary Church. Have a great day.       
