    
HIGHLIGHT: Pope Francis visited refugee camp as his first trip to an active war zone. Nearly 150 world leaders expected to attend the summit. Suspected attacker  said to have bought detonators in France. Growing rift between Turkey and Russia  over downing of Russian airliner. Almost 150 world leaders are in Paris for the  summit on global warming and environmental activists in Paris clashed with  police on Sunday Environmental activists in Paris clashed with police on Sunday  and officers fired tear gas to break up the demonstrations and the protesters  threw bottles, shoes, and police say even candles taken from memorials, and  while those protesters are finding ways around new restrictions on mass  demonstrations in Paris, activists have a message they want to send to world  leaders at the summit. In the U.S. state of Colorado, the accused in Friday's  shooting spree at a Planned Parenthood clinic, Robert Dear, is set to appear in  court Monday, and according to a law enforcement official, Dear spoke about baby  parts after his surrender and expressed anti-abortion and anti- government views  but the police have not released a motive for the shooting. Presidential  candidate, Dr. Ben Carson, is backing his position on Syrian refugees with  first-hand experience of their plight at refugee camps in Jordan, and the U.S.  Republican presidential candidate visited the camps over the weekend and says  most refugees told him they would rather be relocated within Syria than come to  the United States, and he says the emphasis should be on increased funding for  the camps. Indonesia's airline industry is one of the fastest- growing in the  world, also the deadliest, with more than 350 people killed flying in Indonesia  in the past year, and an upcoming report on the deadly crash of Air Asia flight  8501 has some questioning if Indonesia airlines are safe to fly.     
 ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: This is CNN NEWSROOM, live from Los Angeles.    Ahead this hour, security is tight in the Central African Republic as Pope  Francis visits an active war zone for the very first time.    Police and demonstrators clash on the streets of Paris as the city already on  edge gets ready to host an international climate summit.    And we may be closer to knowing a motive for a deadly shooting at a U.S. women's  clinic.    Hello, and thank you for joining us. I'm Isha Sesay. NEWSROOM L.A. starts right  now.    It is 7:00 a.m. in the Central African Republic, where Pope Francis will spend  the last day of his African tour. He is scheduled to visit a mosque next hour, a  gesture of religious tolerance in the war torn country. On Sunday, the Pope  celebrated mass after touring a refugee camp.    Well, CNN Vatican correspondent Delia Gallagher joins me now on the phone from  the capital Bangui.    Delia, remarkable scenes of the Pope there in Bangui, especially his trip to  that refugee camp. Tell us more about it.   
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Isha, the refugee camp was one of the first places that the Pope went to when he arrived here after meeting  with the leaders of the government because that is the point of this trip. He  wanted to draw attention to the fact that there are some one million displaced  people who have either fled the country or who are living in these camps because  of the war fare that is going on.    Let me say, Isha, that this morning is the moment of greatest concern for the  Pope because as you mentioned in about an hour he will be going to visit a  mosque which is in one of the neighborhoods of Bangui that has seen the most  violent conflict. And I can tell you that the situation is packed with security.  We have seen U.N. armored vehicles, jeeps with soldiers and fatigues with  rifles. A lot of undercover security detail leaving as well, in those cars. And  helicopters surveying from above. So if anything of the day and a half that he's  here in the Central African Republic, this moment is the one that everybody is  really watching.    Certainly in terms of security, but also in terms of the fact that the Pope is  going to the mosque to meet the imam, to give a talk, and kind of go to the  heart of what is part of the problem here, and that is the fighting between  Christian and Muslim militia. It is not entire about religion. It is about power  and control over some of the natural resources of this country, which are very  valuable, oil, diamonds, minerals, et cetera. But the Pope really in this  gesture going to the mosque is making a very strong statement for peace in this  country -- Isha.   
SESAY: And, Delia, how is his message of reconciliation going over with people there?   
GALLAGHER: Well, I'll tell you, last night when he was at the cathedral, we really saw a fiery Pope in terms of a political message for peace. He came out  to the crowd and said in French, resistance, resistance. He was telling them to  stay, don't leave. Stay and help build -- rebuild your country. He said to those  waging war, put down your instruments of death. I mean, it was a very kind of  fiery political speech such as you might see from political leaders.    And the people responded. The crowds responded. When we came into the airport,  many of the people said to us, we're so happy that the Pope actually came  because there was some concern before the trip that it might be canceled. That  they said they desperately need his attention here, the world's attention to  this place. They said they feel forgotten. They're in a desperate situation  because they have still a situation of great instability here and they have a  transition government which is supposed to be bringing them to elections next  month.    But I tell you, Isha, you know, seeing the security here, it's a bit like a  movie. But it's not. It's real life. And these people are used to living with  the U.N. forces here, with the armed conflict. In fact, the archbishop of Bangui  said that when they heard that the Pope was coming, he spoke to Christians, he  spoke to Muslims, and even armed men were ready to welcome the Pope.    So it is -- it's one of the largest humanitarian crises in the world. They said,  you know, it's really important that the Pope came here. The gesture itself was  the point of his message, to bring attention to this part of the world.   
SESAY: It is a remarkable trip.   CNN Vatican correspondent Delia Gallagher joining us there on the phone from  Bangui. Delia, we appreciate it. Thank you.     Senior Vatican analyst John Allen joins us now on Skype from Denver,  Colorado, to discuss the Pope's trip.    John Allen, always good to have you with us. To have the Pope in a country still  grappling with an active conflict is remarkable in itself. I've got to ask you  what you've made of the trip to the Central African Republic so far.   
JOHN ALLEN, CNN SENIOR VATICAN ANALYST: Well, Isha, as you say, in many ways this is one of those trips where the mere fact of going there is almost the most  important storyline, quite apart from anything specific the Pope has said or  done.    Let's bear in mind this is the first time in the modern era a Pope has ever set  foot in an active conflict zone, and Francis was obviously determined to do  this. In fact, on his Alitalia flight on the way to Africa a few days ago he  went up to the cockpit to chat with the pilot and jokingly told him, look, if  you can't get me to the Central African Republic, just give me a parachute  because that's how determined he was to be there.    I was struck by some of the reporting done by one of my colleagues, who was on  the ground with the Pope today who was at that refugee camp that the Pope  visited. She interviewed an 80-year-old Italian missionary nun who has been  serving in the Central African Republic most of her life and who has lived  through the conflict since the very beginning in 2013. Who said for the people  at that refugee camp that she served as far as they were concerned the war ended  today with the Pope's presence. So that's how convinced they are that it's going  to be a game changer. Obviously, that remains to be seen, but that's clearly  Francis' desire, Isha.   
SESAY: John, let me ask you this. Why is the Pope so determined to go to the Central African Republic? There are numerous other conflicts, sadly, going on  right now on the African continent with sadly generating a lot of refugee camps  that he could visit. I guess I'm just intrigued as to what it was specifically  about CAR that made him so determined to go.   
ALLEN: Well, I think fundamentally, Isha, because he could get in. I mean, let's remember, when Francis went to Turkey last year he very much wanted to visit  Iraq and Syria in order to make a statement about that conflict but was  persuaded by all of the parties involved that the security situation just  wouldn't make it possible. In this case he was able to override those  objections.    I think the other issue, Isha, is that, although the Central African Republic is  a small country, fewer than five million people, it's a place where the conflict  basically breaks Christian-Muslim and where Christians are the majority. They're  about 80 percent of the population. So I think Francis' calculation was this is  a place where if he called upon Christians either to lay down their arms or at  least to stand back and allow peaceful elections to take place later this month  it could make a real difference.    In other words, I think it was a combination of opportunity and also his  assessment that this was a place uniquely where a Christian spiritual leader  could perhaps move the ball in the direction of peace, Isha.   
SESAY: This is his last day of his African tour. As you look at his time in Kenya, Uganda, and finally in the Central African Republic, is the Vatican going  to deem this trip a success?   
ALLEN: Well, the Vatican will always deem every papal trip a success. You know, its long-term success remains to be seen. We'll see what happens in the Central  African Republic. We'll see what happens in terms of corruption in African  nations which Francis repeatedly denounced. I mean, for that matter we'll see  what happens in Paris.    You were talking earlier about the U.N. climate change summit opening today. You  know, Francis used his visit to the headquarters of the U.N. Environment Program  in Nairobi to issue a strong call for new limits on fossil fuel consumption at  that Paris meeting. But I will say this. I think this trip in many ways has  captured all of the core themes of Francis' papacy in miniature from war and  peace to interreligious dialogue to the environment, to his passion for the  poor.    I mean, we've seen it all over these last six days. So how much success we're  going to have -- the Pope is going to have, you know, the jury is still out. But  in terms of insight into Francis' heart and mind I think this journey has been  remarkable, Isha.   
SESAY: John Allen, it's always a pleasure to have you on. You always provide such great -- excuse me -- such great perspective. Thank you so much.   
ALLEN: You bet.  
SESAY: Well, just over two weeks after the deadly terror attacks, Paris will once again become the center of attention. The city is hosting leaders from  around the world for the COP21 conference on global warming. French President  Francois Hollande met with several heads of state before the summit. A few hours  ago he accompanied U.S. President Barack Obama to a memorial for the victims of  the rampage. Mr. Hollande also met with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Their  meeting came as Beijing was issuing its highest smog alert of the year.     We want to show you these pictures now, live pictures of the city  here. Officials say that humidity and lack of wind could keep the smog around  for several more days.    Well, nearly 150 world leaders plan to attend the two-week conference, and  across the world, people concerned about climate change are voicing their  concerns about the summit.    This was a scene in Mexico City. Protesters called on leaders gathering for the  summit to not just talk but take action.    This was a crowd in Sydney, Australia, and we saw similar demonstrations from  Hong Kong to Japan to Nepal.    In Paris, protesters clashed with police, demonstrators were angered by  government crackdown on rallies in the aftermath of the terror attacks.  Protesters threw bottles, shoes, and officers say even candles taken from  memorials. Police responded with tear gas.    While the rest of the city has been bustling in preparation for the COP21  conference, as Jim Bittermann reports, expectations for the global warming  summit are extremely high.       
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTL. CORRESPONDENT: A wind turbine has sprouted in the middle of the Avenue Champs-Elysee. A planetary globe has  appeared in the middle of the Environmental Ministry. Paris seems as if it's  being paved over with solar panels and the city is awash in displays and  innovations.    Gerard d'Aboville has singlehandedly rowed boats across both the Atlantic and  Pacific Oceans, sail up the River Seine with what is said to be the world's  largest solar-powered oceangoing vessel.   
GERARD D'ABOUVILLE, SAILOR: I think the key of the climate is mostly into the oceans. So I'm very pleased to bring here in Paris a little bit of the sea.   
BITTERMANN: For the tens of thousands of others like d'Aboville, drawn to Paris for the coming two weeks, this is make-or-break time for climate change. "Later  will be too late," say the signs atop the French Foreign Ministry, as the  Foreign minister himself knows trying to get the nations of the world to agree  on anything is a tall order. And never before in France or perhaps anywhere have  there been negotiations quite like these.    Starting Monday, 195 countries will gather at a purpose-built conference center  at Le Bourget Airport north of Paris to try to find agreement on worldwide  limitations on greenhouse gases. But the complex negotiations were nearly  overshadowed by the vicious terrorist attacks in Paris two weeks ago, which, at  first, seemed as if they might endanger the meetings here. In fact, some people  felt that the climate talks should be called off.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not convinced about the necessity at this moment to organize this event. I think we have other priorities today, even  if the environment is very important.   
BITTERMANN: But for most, those worldwide issues Trump even terrorist concerns.  
: In a way, the Paris conference is just too big to call off. Everyone from the Pope on down has emphasized how important it is for the planet  to concentrate on the climate issue. President Hollande said just a few days ago  that the best response to the terrorist attacks is to carry on with the climate  summit.   
: But protecting the nearly 150 heads of state and 40,000 delegates who are expected will be a real challenge for French security forces. 2800  police and army will patrol the site itself; 8,000 more will reinforce French  borders; in all, 120,000 security personnel will be mobilized across the  country.    The leaders will only attend for the first two days of the conference but miles  of roads will have to be closed off to get them to and from the conference site,  something that is expected to throw normally impossible French traffic into  chaos.    But with popular demonstrations and serious negotiations, the climate conference  will go on. It's something the world's leaders feel simply cannot be postponed  any longer.    Jim Bittermann, CNN, Paris.       
SESAY: Well, for more on the talks let's bring in William Patzert. He is a climatologist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory here in California.    William, wonderful to have you here with us.   
WILLIAM PATZERT, CLIMATOLOGIST, JET PROPULSION LABORATORY: Really a pleasure.  
SESAY: So listen, I don't want to be a negative Nelly or anything like that, but ahead of these Paris talks set to officially get under way tomorrow there seems  to be a great amount of optimism that there will be a deal. But from all the  reading that I am doing it doesn't seem as if any deal is actually going to set  us on the path to keeping global warming below that critical threshold of 2  degrees Celsius. So I guess my question is, what qualifies a success here?   
PATZERT: Well, I guess I'm a little more positive than you are, Isha. You know, since COP1 we've really come a long way. The science is really solid about  global warming. Many politicians across the planet, business leaders see this as  a new opportunity, and not only that, many spiritual leaders, which are very,  very important to all this, have come on board. So I'm a little more optimistic  that we will reach some sort of an agreement here and we will --   
 SESAY: Will it be a good agreement? I agree that by all accounts from looking at the pledges that have already been made by the countries, there will  be an agreement. But my question to you is, will it be a good enough agreement?   
PATZERT: Well, it will be a positive agreement and will be on the path I believe over the next few decades to weaning ourselves off fossil fuels and being on the  path for renewable energy, which will be fantastic for the health of the planet.   
SESAY: Why are you so confident that the plans to reduce emissions will involve significant take-up of renewable energy?   
PATZERT: Well, we already see it. Half the new energy going online across the planet today is renewable energy. So we're really already on a path for  renewable energy across the planet. And with these new agreements that I believe  will be signed this week, that will be accelerated. And so as we look out into  the future, rather than three, four, five degrees Celsius increase in global  temperatures we can minimize that to between two and three degrees Celsius,  which is livable.   
SESAY: Livable but even the two degrees Celsius we were hearing of what sounded like dire, you know, ramifications, consequences, what would it be like at  three?   
PATZERT: Well, you know, I think of it this way. If we do nothing, it'll be like being hit in the head with a shot-put. But if we make small steps each year it  will be more like getting hit in the head with a ping-pong ball. All right?    And so I'm very optimistic. You know, I'm a little older than you are. So I've  been at this at a while. And I remember COP1. And I was very pessimistic after  COP1. But at COP21 here, I am very optimistic that we will reach an agreement  and we will be on a path from non-renewable energy to renewable energy.   
SESAY: What about developing nations? As you talk with optimism about the take-up of renewable energies. What about these developing nations that say they  need richer countries, developed nations to effectively subsidize the  transition? How confident are you that they'll get the money they seek and  therefore make the change?   
PATZERT: Well, of course it's very important that the highly developed nations, Europe, the United States, China, India, definitely have to subsidize the  developing nations. There is no doubt about that. That is the responsibility  especially of the wealthiest nations. And that should really be part of the  agreement.   
SESAY: William, a great pleasure. I'm so pleased to have you on with your positive take on things. We shall see how it turns out.   
PATZERT: Well, you know, this is a great leap forward. If we don't do this, the consequences for the planet are seriously dire. And so let's try to be  optimistic here, Isha.   
SESAY: So I guess what you're saying is any deal is better than no deal.  
PATZERT: No, I think this deal will be a great deal, a great start. You know, my mother once told me, inch by inch it's a cinch. Yard by yard it's hard.       
SESAY: William Patzert, we're going to leave it there and we're going to get you back when we see what the deal actually is, so we can go through the details.  Thank you.   
PATZERT: Nice talking to you.  
SESAY: Nice talking to you, too.   Now more information is surfacing about the key suspect who is still at large in  the Paris terror attacks. An update coming up.    Plus, Turkey looks to smooth over relations with Russia. Find out what they're  doing to ease tensions.       
 SESAY: U.S. president Barack Obama made an unannounced late-night visit to the memorial for victims of the Paris terror attacks. Mr. Obama added a  rose to the overflowing bouquets outside the Bataclan theater.    CNN's Alexandra Field has new details now on the attack suspect who is still at  large.       
ALEXANDRA FIELD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: For more than two weeks, Salah Abdeslam has been the most wanted man in connection with the Paris terror attacks.  Authorities have already identified his brother as one of the suicide bombers.  And they say that together both brothers rented the cars that were used in the  attacks. But now a source is telling CNN that it was Salah Abdeslam who also  purchased detonators prior to those Paris attacks.    A French newspaper is reporting that the detonators were bought at a store north  of Paris and that the owner or manager of that store contacted authorities when  he saw Abdeslam's photos as part of this international manhunt.    Abdeslam was able to leave France entering Belgium in the immediate aftermath of  the attacks. That's before police knew exactly who they're looking for. But one  U.S. lawmaker now speculates that investigators could be closer to finding the  man they've been searching for.       
REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL, HOUSE HOMELAND SECURITY COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN: I do think they are closing in on him. And that's the good news. There are many involved  with this plot. It's a very sophisticated plot, an external operation that we've  seen from ISIS. You mentioned the bombing of the Russian airliner. This is a new  ISIS, a new chapter for them to be able to conduct three external operations in  just recent times.       
FIELD: The search for Salah Abdeslam has prompted raids and arrests across Belgium. Already authorities have arrested six people in connection with to the  Paris terror attacks. They have arrested two men who are believed to have driven  Abdeslam from France to Belgium, along with another man who's believed to have  picked him up once he arrived from Belgium and driven him to another location.  And while they continue their hunt for Salah Abdeslam, they're also looking for  one more man, Mohamed Abrini, who was seen with Abdeslam just two days before  the terror attacks.    Alexandra Field, CNN.       
 SESAY: Well, the body of the Russian fighter pilot who was shot down near the Syrian-Turkish border will be returned to Russia. Turkish authorities  flew the body to Ankara, where it will be transferred to Russia at a later date.  The Turkish military downed the jet on Tuesday, saying it was flying in Turkish  air space and was repeatedly warned to leave. Russia denies those claims, and  President Vladimir Putin calls the incident a stab in the back.    Well, let's turn to senior international correspondent Matthew Chance live in  Moscow.    Matthew, Russia initiating economic sanctions against Turkey. Give us some  perspective on how Turkey -- how Turkey is being targeted.   
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, a number of areas. I mean, the -- despite the political differences between Russia and Turkey,  they've always had this strong economic relationship. That's now really being  impacted by these sanctions with the Kremlin announcing that there will be  restrictions placed on Russian firms involved in projects here, particularly  building projects, things like that.    Russian -- sorry, Turkish nationals who are living in Russia will also be  affected. They've got rid of, for instance, the visa free travel from Turkish  citizens coming to Russia. You'll now need a visa from January 1st. Also,  products, food products particularly, are set to be sanctioned as well. The  Kremlin has already said this will happen. The list of exactly which products  are going to be restricted has yet to be published. We're expecting it before  tomorrow, according to the Russian government.    And so yes, some considerable restrictions placed on Turkish businesses  operating this country. They have banned charter flights between the two  countries. Russian tour operators are saying now they won't be selling holiday  package deals to Russian tourists. That's significant because last year, for  instance, 3.2 million Russians went to Turkey on their holidays. That will  probably grind to a virtual standstill.    And so yes, this fallout over the shoot down last week of the SU-24 Russian  warplane on the Turkish-Syrian border is now having a huge impact on relations  between the two countries.   
SESAY: And, Matthew, is there a clip after getting relations back on track? It seems that the Turks definitely making overtures to try and de-escalate the  situation.   
CHANCE: Yes, possibly. I mean -- but, I mean, in terms of -- in terms of getting the relationship back on track, I mean, we're not in that phase yet. I mean,  we're still in the phase of the relationship getting worse. And so I think  ultimately, you know, what you'd hope that the relationship would get back on  track. But at the moment, there's still great deal of tension, a great deal of  animosity between the two countries.    President Erdogan of Turkey has been pushing, requesting to have a face-to-face  meeting with Vladimir Putin in Paris. They're both there attending the climate  summit in the French capital. But the Kremlin has essentially rejected that so  far at least publicly. We don't know what's going on behind the scenes, but yes,  I mean, the Russians at this point are saying, you know, we want an apology. We  want compensation. And the Turks have refused to offer either of those things.  And so that's led to a deepening of the crisis between the two nations.   
SESAY: Matthew Chance joining us there from Moscow. Appreciate it, Matthew. Thank you.    Well, U.S. presidential candidates supports his position on Syrian refugees with  a first-hand visit. Ben Carson's trip to Jordan ahead.    Plus, tempers flare on the Paris streets ahead of the global warming summit. We  will go inside the protests.   
 SESAY: You're watching CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles. I'm Isha Sesay.    The headlines this hour -- Pope Francis is ending his African trip in the  Central African Republic, his first visit to an active war zone. He celebrated  mass in the capital on Sunday and toured a refugee camp. He will visit a mosque  next hour, sending a powerful message of religious tolerance in the country.    A source tells CNN a key suspect in the Paris terror attacks bought detonators  in France. A French newspaper reports Salah Abdeslam made the purchase at a  fireworks store north of Paris. Abdeslam remains at large.    Almost 150 world leaders are in Paris for the COP21 summit global warming. U.S.  President Obama arrived a few hours ago and visited a memorial for victims of  the Paris terror attacks. And French President Francois Hollande greeted China's  leader, Xi Jinping, ahead of the summit.    Environmental activists in Paris clashed with police on Sunday. Officers fired  tear gas to break up the demonstrations. The protesters threw bottles, shoes,  and police say even candles taken from memorials.    While those protesters are finding ways around new restrictions on mass  demonstrations in Paris, CNN's John Sutter has more on the message they want to  send to world leaders at the COP21 summit.       
JOHN SUTTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Thousands of shoes fill Paris' Place de la Republique in silent protest. On many of them, messages about  climate change, "Stop pollution, protect future generations."   
: You see all the shoes here demanding a stop to pollution and action on climate change at the Place de la Republique, very close to where the terror  attacks happened.   
: Paris is still in a state of emergency after the November 13th terror attacks, and mass demonstrations have been banned by authorities.   
UNIDENTIFIED ACTIVIST: So we showed with all the shoes that we wanted to take part in this march and that we wanted world leaders to take action on climate  change.       
SUTTER: But ahead of a major U.N. climate change summit in the city, climate act activists here have found creative ways to make their message heard.   
UNIDENTIFIED ACTIVIST: I have to apologize for being taken for granted, always taking and never giving, telling them stories about animals we used to have.   
SUTTER: Activist angels from Australia passed through the display. Others formed a human chain.       
SUTTER: But the mood got tense.      
SUTTER: Somber demonstrations gave way to conflict as other protesters denied the ban on marches and challenged the police.   
UNIDENTIFIED ACTIVIST: To change the mind of the people and, of course, of the leaders of the world.   
SUTTER: The climate summit COP21 may be the world's best chance to figure out how to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.       
SUTTER: Many activists say they're sick of the talk. They're eager to see the world take bold steps towards a cleaner future.    John Sutter, CNN, Paris.       
 SESAY: Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri joins us with more. Pedram, Beijing enduring some frightening levels of smog, some of the highest this year.   
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Yeah, and that's saying a lot for them. This part of the world, of course, often makes the news when it comes to air quality  issues. When you look at the graphics that show you the ebbs and flows in the  past 24 or so hours, notice as we head into the overnight hours, the pollutants  drop. By day, they rise. By early this morning, exceeding 487, which puts it at  the very top of the hazardous category. That's why an orange warning was issued  over the region, the second highest alert, and also the highest issued in 2015,  and sitting at nearly the 500 number over the past 24 hours or so. When you  think about why we get to this level of pollutants in this part of the world,  with China, their energy production, about two thirds comes out of coal. You  release greenhouse gases, the pollutants in the atmosphere allow the  temperatures to warm up, and also, the primary reason for this with China,  they're not only the largest importer, the larger producer, but they're the  largest exporter. It becomes an issue because of the coal produced and burned  across this part of the world.    I want to show you something as it relates to climate change. When you look at  the natural disasters on our planet since 1995, over 6,000 of them. About 90  percent of the disasters relate to weather in the last two decades. Over 3,000  related to flooding, 2,000 with tropical cyclones, work into earthquakes,  extreme weather temperatures, landslides also leaving to disasters we have seen  observed on our planet. Look at this comparison going from say 1985 to 2015. The  red indicator is the number of disasters we've had in the world of weather per  year since back in 2005 period there. 335 per year. That's a 14 percent increase  from what we had in the period of 1985 to 1995, and the numbers continue to rise  as we go over the past decade. Shows you what's happened as it relates to  climate change. Here's the top five countries impacted. United States have seen  over 470 disasters since 1995. China a close second. In India, the Philippines,  and on the other side, we're looking at death tolls. Myanmar makes the list with  multiple typhoons and cyclones in that part of the world, large-scale  fatalities. Russia, surprising to some, is also on the list. The pattern  continues no matter how you slice the information. Flooding becomes one of the  number-one concerns and of course, extreme temperatures, sea level rise, and  then some of the lower communities in our world begin taking on water, which is  what is expected to happen in a lot of the world -- Isha?   
SESAY: Pedram Javaheri with important analysis.   Pedram, I appreciate it. Thank you.   
JAVAHERI: Thanks.  
SESAY: Well, make sure to head to our website to learn more about the fight against climate change, including how just a small rise in the earth's  temperature can make a huge impact. That's at CNN.com/2degrees.    Two more victims identified in Friday's shooting at a woman's health clinic in  Colorado. We have new details on what the suspected gunman told investigators.   
 SESAY: In the U.S. State of Colorado, officials have identified both civilians killed in Friday's shooting spree at a Planned Parenthood clinic. They  are Jennifer McCoughsky and Kier Stewart. University police officer, Garrett  Swasey, also died in the attack.    The accused, Robert Dear, is set to appear in court Monday. According to a law  enforcement official, Dear spoke about baby parts after his surrender and  expressed anti-abortion and anti-government views. The police have not released  a motive for the shooting.       
GOVERNOR JOHN HICKENLOOPER,, COLORADO: I think we have to come back and look at all aspects of why these shootings have continued to occur, you know, in  Oregon or South Carolina or Colorado. The frequency is unacceptable, and I don't  -- you know, I'm not willing to say, well, we have to sit back and accept this  as a cost of freedom.   
JOHN SUTHERS, COLORADO SPRINGS MAYOR: The First Amendment is not going to go away. We're going to see inflammatory rhetoric. And the question is, what can we  do constitutionally to deal with these situations? I know that in the past, as  attorney general, I was head of a committee looking at violent incidents like  this in the past and looking for common scenarios. And one of the things that we  came to the conclusion is we don't do a very good job of identifying people with  potential mental health issues.       
SESAY: Well, CNN affiliate, WLOS, obtained this video of a small isolated mountain cabin where the suspected gunman reportedly lived in North Carolina.    Ben Carson is backing his position on Syrian refugees with first-hand experience  of their plight at refugee camps in Jordan. The U.S. Republican presidential  candidate visited the camps over the weekend and says most refugees told him  they would rather be relocated within Syria than come to the United States.    Carson told CNN's Brianna Keilar the emphasis should be on increased funding for  the camps.       
DR. BEN CARSON,, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Their desire, their true desire is to be resettled in Syria. But, you know, they're satisfied to be in the refugee  camps if the refugee camps are adequately funded. Recognize that, in these  camps, they have schools, they are recreational facilities that are really quite  nice, and they're putting in all kinds of things that make life more tolerable.   
SESAY: Well, Oren Liebermann is in Amman and has more on the politics behind Carson's two-day visit.       
 OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Ben Carson's trip to Jordan could be an attempt to boost his credentials on two major issues, foreign policy and  national security, where he's seen as fairly weak. This is a fairly surprise,  fairly secretive trip to two Syrian refugee camps here, where he met with Syrian  refugees, visited the facilities, and met some of the workers there.    He released what seems to be a very carefully worded statement after visiting  the camps. He said the U.S. taking in 2500 refugees isn't enough. But in the  statement, he doesn't say the U.S. should take in more refugees. It seems to say  they should help other countries that are taking in more refugees.    He plans to tell more about the plans. He also blames the crisis on the Clinton  and Obama administrations.    So it seems from his statement that the trip had an impact on him, but it could  also be Carson trying to distance himself from some very controversial comments  he recently made where he compared some Syrian refugees to rabid dogs. He's  tried to put that in his past, tried to backtrack a bit, and this visit to the  camps and his call for helping them could be seen as a way of pushing himself  past that and getting past that comparison he made, also again, trying to boost  his credentials on foreign policy and national security.    Oren Liebermann, CNN, Amman, Jordan.       
SESAY: Well, Indonesia's airline industry is one of the fastest- growing in the world, also the deadliest, with more than 350 people killed flying in Indonesia  in the past year. An upcoming report on the deadly crash of Air Asia flight 8501  has some questioning if Indonesia airlines are safe to fly.    David Molko reports.       
LUCAS JOKOPREMAJONO, LOST BROTHER IN ASIA AIR CRASH: They directly come from the flight, has been flying.   
DAVID MOLKO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And then you knew?  
JOKOPREMAJONO: Yeah, I'm still not believing it.  
MOLKO: Lucas Jokopremajonorelives one of the hardest days of his life. The day he lost Nenang, a brother, a husband, a father. Killed  last December when Air Asia 8501 crashed into the java sea. No one onboard  survived.   
JOKOPREMAJONO: I started to realize we have cannot just go. We have to stop this and let's fight the fight.   
MOLKO: A fight, Lucas says, to make sure other families won't suffer the way his did, in a country that's lost more than 300 people to crashes in the past year  alone.    Indonesia is a country with a rising middle class who can now afford to fly.  It's forecast to be the world's sixth-largest aviation market within two  decades, but with that rapid growth comes significant concerns.   
: When it comes to implementing safety guidelines, Indonesia ranked near the bottom of the list. A category two ranking in the U.S. means carriers based here  can't expand there even if they wanted to. And all but a handful of airlines  remain blacklisted by the European Union.       
MOLKO: The flight carrier Garuda Indonesia was on that blacklist until 2009. It's now ranked among the best in the world.   
ARIF WIBOWO, PRESIDENT & CEO, GARUDA AIRLINES: The culture of the safety is not the only responsibility of the air crew, cabin crew, but of course, all the  members.   
MOLKO: But while Garuda voluntarily complies with an international airline safety audit, widely considered to be the industry gold standard, its  subsidiary, Citilink, does not.   
: Help me understand. Why not? Why not lead by example with your low cost arm too?   
WIBOWO: I think the issue is not only on the airline's issues. But of course, regarding the E.U. ban, the whole issue in the country as well.   
MOLKO: While Indonesia takes issue with its international ranking, the transportation minister concedes there are areas for improvement.   
IGNASIUS JONAN, INDONESIA TRANSPORTATION MINISTER: For me, it's non- negotiation. We have made some regulations that will not allow any airlines to  expand their business if they make any serious incident or accident.   
MOLKO: Since the Air Asia crash, the government says it has stepped up safety inspections and announced a slate of reforms. Those include requiring airlines  to have a minimum fleet, to retire aircraft more than 30 years old, and to shore  up their balance sheets or risk suspension.    But even with the reforms, concerns remain.   
JOKOPREMAJONO: Still not enough, I think. I think it's long to go. MOLKO: Lucas believes his brother Nenang'sdeath won't be in vain, that it's  helped set the country he loves on course to a brighter and safer future.   
JOKOPREMAJONO: Don't give up. Don't give up.  
MOLKO: David Molko, CNN, Jakarta, Indonesia.      
 SESAY: Well, the U.S. National Security Agency has ended its bulk collection of telephone metadata. The government will now need a targeted  warrant or call order to collect records on Americans' phone calls. Former NSA  contractor, Edward Snowden, leaked details about the intelligence program two  years ago, forcing the government to confirm its existence. An intelligence  court is weighing an NSA request to limited access to historical metadata until  February 29th, 2016.    Well, like something straight out of science fiction, Amazon is revealing new  footage of its drone delivery system, which it calls Prime Air. The online  retailer released this video showing off what the new technology is capable of.  Amazon promises that the drones will be able to deliver packages weighing up to  five pounds in under 30 minutes. But first, they have to get the OK from federal  aviation officials to fly the drones.    NBA star, Kobe Bryant, decides it's time to hang up his basketball shoes. The  details of his surprise announcement next on NEWSROOM L.A.       
JAVAHERI: Good Monday morning to you. Pedram Javaheri for CNN "Weather Watch."          
 SESAY: Los Angeles basketball star, Kobe Bryant, announced Sunday he is retiring after this year's NBA season. The five-time champion has been  plagued with injuries the last two years. The Lakers guard made his announcement  by writing a poem: "This season is all I have left to give," he says. "My heart  can take the pounding, my mind can handle the grind, but my body knows it's time  to say good-bye." Interesting way to announce an announcement, to make the  announcement known.    All right, moving on. Adele is having the best week ever. Her new album "25"  sold nearly 3.4 million copies in the U.S. in its first week. That beats the  previous record holder, In Sync, by nearly a million copies. Adele's latest  release is already the top selling album of 2015. And the singer just announced  a European tour kicking off in Belfast in February. No word yet on any U.S.  dates.    And from pop royalty to actual royalty, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge  released two new photos of daughter, Princess Charlotte. The photos were taken  by the duchess earlier this month at their home in Norfolk. A statement from  Kensington Palace says the couple still receives messages from around the world  about their daughter and they hope everyone gets as much enjoyment from the  photos as they do. Princess Charlotte is 6 months old.    You're watching CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles. I'm Isha Sesay.    The news continues with Rosemary Church right after this.   
