    
HIGHLIGHT: The terrorists in Paris had more attacks, quote, "ready to go," according to a source close to the investigation, on who killed 130 people there  on November 13th, and new developments into the whereabouts of Salah Abdeslam  and French investigators now believe that the key suspect in this Paris massacre  may have escaped to Syria, so, how did this happen and what does it mean for  this investigation? Jury selection is under way for the first Baltimore police  officer to go on trial in the death of Freddie Gray and Officer William G.  Porter is charged with involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, and  reckless endangerment, and officials say Gray told porter he couldn't breathe  but the officer did not assess Gray's condition or call for medical assistance,  and this trial could determine how trials for the other five officers proceed  and Baltimore's police chief says the future of the city is at stake. New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie's struggling presidential bid got a boost, landing a key  endorsement from New Hampshire's high-profile newspaper the "Union Leader," and  now Christie is expected to return with a coveted endorsement in New Hampshire,  but will a big endorsement from a high-profile newspaper revive Chris Christie's  struggling campaign, and why did the newspaper says that he is the leader that  the country needs?     
 PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Pamela Brown. More on our breaking news. The terrorists in Paris had more attacks, quote, "ready to go," according  to a source close to the attackers -- this investigation on who killed 130  people there on November 13th. And new developments into the whereabouts of this  man, Salah Abdeslam. French investigators now believe that the key suspect in  this Paris massacre may have escaped to Syria. So, how did this happen? What  does it mean for this investigation?    Joining me now is CNN terrorism analyst, Paul Cruickshank.    You're just getting some information.   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: The Belgian authorities have always been concerned he might try to travel to Syria, but they do not at this point  have concrete indications that he actually successfully reached Syria. This is a  working theory only from intelligent services in France that he may have reached  Syria, but no concrete evidence that he managed to get into Syria. It would be  difficult for someone who's the most wanted man in Europe with his face on all  the television screens throughout the continent to make it all the way to Syria.  This is a guy who was picked up by a couple of friends in Paris the night of the  attacks. He came back to Brussels, picked up by another friend in Molenbeek, who  actually popped into a cafe in Brussels for a little while. Not someone with the  best terrorism trade craft. I think it would be very surprising if someone like  that could get all the way into Syria despite every intelligent service in  Europe tracking him -- Pamela?   
 BROWN: In light of that, then, what other theories are they exploring? It's been two weeks since the attacks, more than that, right? He's  still nowhere to be seen.   
CRUICKSHANK: His last known location is the Saturday after the attacks. It's in the district not too far away from Molenbeek, where one of his friends dropped  him off on the Saturday. It's quite possible he's hiding out in a basement there  somewhere, a friend is putting him up, a sympathizer and they've just not been  able to figure out which address he's staying in. Any time someone goes on the  run, moving around, they're very vulnerable to arrests. I wouldn't be surprised  if he's still hiding out in Brussels.   
BROWN: You bet ISIS will want him to come and be with him in Syria so they can use him in propaganda videos. I want to talk about what we're learning from  sources that there are these other attacks ready to go. What do the targets tell  you, the fact they wanted to target everything from schools to transport  centers?   
CRUICKSHANK: They wanted to launch a second and even a third wave of spectacular attacks in Paris. The surviving gunmen, people who weren't involved as attackers  in that first attack, including the ringleader, Abdelhamid Abaaoud. According to  the French, they had a desire to attack a shopping mall in Paris. Either the day  after the raid or even the day of the raid itself, where they were holed up in a  safe house. Also information from somebody in touch with a cousin of Abdelhamid  Abaaoud suggesting they wanted to attack schools and transport targets and  Jewish targets in France. With all the world's media gathered in France at that  time, that would have been very traumatic for the French people. Fortunately,  those plans were foiled, it would appear, when the French commandos went into  that safe house.   
BROWN: Looking at the big picture here, Paul, ISIS has now taken responsibility for seven attacks in three weeks. Look at this graphic right here. These are all  of the attacks around the world ISIS has taken responsibility for. What does  that tell you about the group and its growing threat?   
CRUICKSHANK: It tells you ISIS is getting into the international terrorism business in a big way. Taking a page out of the al Qaeda playbook. They're  training Western recruits in Syria, in Iraq. They're sending them back. The  network behind this is still at large. The senior ringleader in this attack in  Paris, Fabien is thought to be recruiting European and French recruits, giving  them training and sending them back. They're not just orchestrating these plots  from Syria but also from Turkey, some of these recruits don't have to get into  Syria. They're meeting with ISIS operatives in Turkey, getting their marching  orders, coming back, in touch through encrypted communications. It's almost  terror by remote control with some of these plots.   
BROWN: Very terrifying.   Paul, thank you very much.    In other news, jury selection under way for the Baltimore police officer charged  in the death of Freddie Gray. Can the officer get a fair and impartial hearing  in the same city rocked by protests and riots?    Plus, the threat of gun violence forces one university to shut down. The  security threat just ahead.   
 BROWN: AT THIS HOUR, jury selection is under way for the first Baltimore police officer to go on trial in the death of Freddie Gray. Officer  William G. Porter is charged with involuntary manslaughter, second-degree  assault, and reckless endangerment. Officials say Gray told Porter he couldn't  breathe but the officer did not assess Gray's condition or call for medical  assistance. This trial could determine how trials for the other five officers  proceed. Baltimore's police chief says the future of the city is at stake. A lot  going on here.    Joining me to discuss this case, our CNN correspondent, Jean Casarez; and former  U.S. state attorney and legal expert, Laura Coates.    Thanks for coming on.    Jean, to you first.    One of the big questions with these procedures is whether it's possible to find  an impartial jury. Already we're learning that every potential juror has said  they knew about Freddie Gray's death. Not surprising. That Baltimore reached a  settlement with the family. And protesters, as we know, are outside the  building. That could be heard inside the building. What is the judge doing to  ensure they find an impartial jury here?   
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A lot is going on. The judge is telling jurors they will be anonymous. Their names, their information, will not come out to  protect them and protect the integrity of the trial. Jury selection is right  behind me on the fourth floor. The information we're getting out of the  courtroom is that there are 75 potential jurors right now being questioned. And  40 of them are African-American. 33 are white. One Hispanic and one East Indian.  As you said, all of them know about this case. All of them know a civil  settlement in the amount of $6.4 million was given in the last few months to the  family of Freddie Gray. Out of the 75, 35 of them, that's almost one-half, have  been convicted, imprisoned or have current charges. 26 of them have very strong  opinions about their case. Now, once the questions are asked in unison where  they just raise their hands, then they'll go into a conference room where jurors  will be individually questioned. But the defense renewed their motion today. Of  course, this is to preserve it for an appeal if there is a conviction to change  the venue of this case. They don't believe Baltimore is the venue to have a fair  and impartial hearing. The judge has been adamant from the beginning, saying, we  have to try, we have to believe in this community. William Porter, the first one  to go on trial. That's because prosecutors believe a statement he made is  critical to other prosecution, so they want to try to gain that connection with  him first. When he arrives, about halfway during that van ride, he asks Freddie  Gray if he needs medical attention. Gray responds that he does. That was  communicated. At that point they did not take him to a hospital.   
 BROWN: Laura, because this is a case that's gotten so much publicity, in fact, some of the jurors may have been impacted by it, the curfew, the  protests that went on after the death of Freddie Gray, what happens if they  can't find an impartial jury with this pool that they have right now? What would  happen then?   
LAURA COATES, FORMER U.S. STATE ATTORNEY & LEGAL EXPERT: One thing they could do is move it out of Baltimore City. Jean is absolutely correct, the judge has been  adamant about wanting to do that because they want Baltimore residents to have  afternoon opportunity to be the peer for this jury. But also an option is to  have the jury trial go away and have it be a Bench trial in front of Judge  Williams. Not a particularly attractive option, given the fact that this judge  is a former prosecutor for the Department of Justice, prosecuting police  excessive force and brutality cases. It's not an attractive option but it's one  that served other officers. The case in Chicago when there was a Bench trial  against that off-duty officer, it had an acquittal. It's a possible scenario.  You're right, Pamela, the settlement, with the curfew, with the rioting, there's  not a single jury in that pool who has not impacted or has a strong opinion  about the Freddie Gray case.   
BROWN: The judge has already denied a motion from the defense asking for a change of venue. Also the judge has said the jurors will not be sequestered. Do  you think that's unusual for a trial like this, especially considering the  protests and disturbances that happened?   
COATES: It's not so unusual to have sequestration. It's anomaly. It's not done very often. When it's done, it's high- profile, celebrity trials. Really the  anonymity for each juror should technically be sufficient and they should be  transported from remote locations. That's going to be the biggest issue every  potential juror has, which is my personal safety and whether I'll be harassed.  Outside of the courtroom today you can hear chants from protesters outside,  talking about Freddy Gray. These jurors know that they -- although they have  anonymous numbers, they will be located. They will likely be identified. And  they will have some impact of having their role in a jury selection. In fact, I  think over 20 jurors already stood up to say that they have concerns about being  a part of the jury pool for those reasons.   
BROWN: Understandably there.   Jean, to you now.    We've learned that officer Porter will be the first for the trial what will  happen? Is he going to testify in his own defense? What do we know about that?   
CASAREZ: Pam, what we know is from a defense motion, they said that very likely William Porter will take the stand in his own defense. Very rarely do you have  the defense file a motion. Just putting it out there that he's going to take the  stand. It appears he will, to tell his story. That statement he gave, he also in  that statement said he wasn't sure if Freddie Gray had jailitis at that time.  Was he really that sick? Was he really ill? So, it may help the defense to then  allow him to extrapolate on that. Of course, you also have cross-examination  from the prosecution.   
BROWN: Jean Casarez and Laura Coates, thank you so much. We appreciate it.   The University of Chicago has canceled classes and all activities because of an  online threat that specifically mentioned the campus quad. In a statement  released Sunday, officials said that, "In response to the threat the university  will have an increased police and security presence on and around the campus,  and including personnel with visible weapons and other measures. The university  officials are keeping in close contact with the FBI, which is continuing to  investigate the threat." The school also, they are asking if anybody sees  anything unusual, contact the campus police.     Coming up AT THIS HOUR, he is lagging in the polls, and he did not  make it to the main stage of the last Republican debate, but will a big  endorsement from the high-profile newspaper revive Chris Christie's struggling  presidential campaign? And why the newspaper says that he is the leader that the  country needs.   
 BROWN: New Jersey Governor Chris Christie's struggling presidential bid got a boost, landing a key endorsement from New Hampshire's high-profile  newspaper the "Union Leader," and now Christie is expected to return with a  coveted endorsement in New Hampshire.    Joining me to discuss is Grant Bosse, the editorial page editor of the  newspaper, the New Hampshire "Union Leader."    Grant, why endorse Chris Christie, who is at the bottom of the polls?   
GRANT BOSSE, EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR, UNION LEADER: Well, we do not pay attention to the polls, but we make predictions and not polls. And if you pay attention to  them, they are worse than useless, and the New Hampshire voters are going to be  making their mind in January and February and when they walk into the voting  booth, we have a suggestion that Chris Christie should be their president.   
BROWN: Why is that?  
BOSSE: Well, he is an experienced conservative leader who is a successful governor in a liberal state. He vetoed more tax increases than anyone in  history, and he has experience as a prosecutor, as a U.S. attorney, and we  believe that he has the experience, the expertise and the temperament to not  only take on Donald Trump in the primary, but Hillary Clinton in the general  election, and to restore American leadership if he is elected president.   
BROWN: And Donald Trump knocked the endorse men endorsement today tweeting, how is Chris Christie running the state of New Hampshire, which is very troubled,  and he is spending all of his time in New Hampshire. New Jerseyians are not  happy. Is there a Republican front runner?   
BOSSE: No, because nobody has voted yet. Iowa in January, and we will go in February, and that is when the race will take shape and support consolidate  behind the three or the four candidates as with we move along, and all of the  kingmakers have wanted to winnow the field and keep people off of the debate  stage, and decide who is and is not the frontrunner. It is a job of the voter  and it is a privilege of the Iowa and New Hampshire voters have enjoyed an  earned over the years, but it is up to them to decide who is the frontrunner and  who are serious candidates, and until they start voting, we won't anoint anybody  a frontrunner.   
BROWN: And I want to get your quick reaction from Donald Trump knocking your endorsement of Chris Christie.   
BOSSE: We will get over it. I think that Mr. Trump has a lot to say on a lot of things. He rarely nods the head and says, good for you, but that is OK, and his  style. He is pretty successful with it. And as I said, we have a suggestion, and  we believe that Chris Christie is a strong conservative leader that America  needs in contrast to the current president, and we believe that he is the best  choice. We didn't expect Donald Trump to agree with us.   
BROWN: And in the newspaper's editorial page, the publisher wrote that "One reason that he is best suited is because he tells it like it is and isn't shy  about it. And other candidates have spoken bluntly, but it is important to tell  it like it is and to actually know what you are talking about."    So, Grant, that begs the question, which candidates do you not believe is  telling it like it is?   
BOSSE: Well, it is not thinly veiled. Donald Trump says anything that is on his mind and he does not back it up. And you know, he has gotten some traction with  that and it is working for him, but we think that as the snow starts to fall  around here, and people start to think more seriously about who they are going  to be voting for president, I will start to consider serious candidates for  president, and that is the candidates who can back up what they are saying and  more than bluster, and we believe that Governor Christie has backed it up as  governor of New Jersey and U.S. attorney. He is on the ground here in New  Hampshire and 50th town hall in Loudon at the fire department, and if you see  him in person, he will take the questions. He is kind of gruff and blunt, and he  is going to tell you what he believes, and not what you want to hear. And we  think that is the gaining traction with New Hampshire voters.   
BROWN: But quickly, you are talking about gaining the traction, and this is the 50th town hall and that the polls, he is not getting any traction and I know  that you say that the polls are not the best indicator, but why is that? Why  isn't he gaining more traction nationally?   
BOSSE: Well, nationally doesn't matter. We don't have a national primary, but a state by state primary and matters how you are doing in Iowa and New Hampshire.       
BROWN: But even in your state. And even in your state.  
BOSSE: And even in that state. Half of the voters don't make up their mind until the weekend of the election, so they will start deciding Friday, Saturday,  Sunday, Monday and Tuesday before they vote in February. So whether they show up  at a poll in November, it just doesn't matter. Chris Christie's meeting the  voters one by one. We will have more to say about it between now and Election  Day. We believe that a lot of people are going to like what he has to say. But  again, we made the endorsement, and we think that he is the best president and  the best nominee for the Republican Party. We don't make predictions. That's up  to voters.   
BROWN: All right, Grant Bosse, thank you very much.   And thank you for joining us AT THIS HOUR.    "Legal View" with Ashleigh Banfield starts --   
