    
HIGHLIGHT: New and disturbing details about the suspected gunman accused of killing three people at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic; according to the  "New York Times", people who knew Robert Dear describe him as a sometimes  violent and deeply contradictory man. Just weeks after taking office the new  mayor of Juneau, Alaska is found dead in his home. Nobody can figure out how he  died. His body was found with injuries. Many people wonder if he was assaulted.  Forget the cigars, Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife are  celebrating the birth of their daughter by giving away a large part of their  fortune; the couple is pledging to donate 99 percent of their Facebook stock to  humanitarian projects and charities over the course of their lives.     
 CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: Lorenzo Vidino, director of the George Washington University Program on Extremism. Thank you so much for joining me  this morning.   
LORENZO VIDINO, GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY: Thank you. My pleasure.  
COSTELLO: You're welcome.   This year's Black Friday was record-breaking in terms of gun sales. The FBI says  Americans bought more firearms on the shopping holiday than any other day in  history. More than 185,000 background checks had to be processed the day after  Thanksgiving -- 5 percent more than at the same time last year.    Still to come in the NEWSROOM, hell on earth: how the ex-wife of the Planned  Parenthood shooter describes her time with Mr. Dear. More details on him next.   
 COSTELLO: Checking some top stories at 34 minutes past, the ringleader in the Paris attacks offered to pay his cousin about $5,000 in  exchange for two suits and two pairs of shoes to be used in future attacks.  That's according to sources close to the investigation who say Abdelhamid  Abaaoud and his accomplice hopped to blend in. That information is from the man  who came forward willing to police offering information about Abaaoud and the  trio of the Paris attacks.    American activist Lori Berenson expected to return to the United States today  after spending 20 years in a Peruvian jail. Now 46 years old, Berenson was  convicted back in 1995 for conspiring with Marxist Leninist terrorists. She was  released on parole in 2010 but could not leave Peru until her sentence was  complete. Her lawyer says that sentence was completed on Sunday and that she can  leave after she signs some paperwork.    To Japan now where over the past two months, at least a dozen wooden boats  filled with bodies have arrived on shore. All 22 bodies were decaying, and two  were missing heads. Japanese officials are trying to figure out where these  ghost ships are coming from and what happened to the people who were on board.  Their best guess so far is that the ships are coming from North Korea. New and  disturbing details about the suspected gunman accused of killing three people at  a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic. According to the "New York Times", people  who knew Robert Dear describe him as a sometimes violent and deeply  contradictory man. Quote, "a man of religious conviction who sinned openly. A  man who successfully wooed women, but some of them say also abused them".    Richard Fausset is the reporter who wrote the article about Dear. He joins me  now to talk about it. Good morning and thanks for being with me.   
RICHARD FAUSSET, REPORTER: Good morning Carol -- thanks for having me.  
COSTELLO: Just let me ask you first about Dear's relationships with women. One of his ex-wives claims he was a serial philanderer, yet he was religious.  Another wife says he wasn't deeply religious. So in your mind, how would you  characterize Richard Dear?   
FAUSSET: Well, just to clarify, both of these women, what we believe to be his second wife and third wife, said that he was a religious man. The difference is  a matter of degree. And it may be somewhat important as this case progresses.    His third wife, a woman named Pamela Ross, tells us that although he was very  religious and that he was opposed to abortion, he was not particularly emphatic  about these things, that it was nothing that was very extreme.    His second wife, however, painted a very different picture. In the divorce court  files from the early 1990s, she paints a picture of a man who was much more  fervent in his religious beliefs. We've also come to find out that he was -- he  had praised the Army of God, the extreme anti-abortion group, in 2009, referring  to them as heroes. And a source of ours who is close to him gave us that  information.    The second wife also told us that he bragged that he put glue in the locks of  the Planned Parenthood offices in Charleston, South Carolina, where he was  living probably sometime in the late 1980s or early 1990s.   
COSTELLO: Can you draw any conclusions from what you found out as to why he attacked the Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs?   
FAUSSET: Well, my understanding is that officials have not come out with an official motive. But from what we're hearing from the second wife, it sounds  like he had, in the past, held very extreme anti-abortion views and that, in  fact, he had targeted this previous Planned Parenthood clinic. We have not  verified yet that the Planned Parenthood clinic in Charleston did get its locks  glued. We're working on that still.   
COSTELLO: Gotcha. And you know, he was living in this shack, almost, in Colorado Springs. He's been married several times. He lived in Charleston, South Carolina  and in other places. Was this like a slow slide into mental illness for him or  poverty, or did you find anything out about that?   
FAUSSET: His second wife, and keep in mind, this information that we gleaned from the second wife came largely from an acrimonious divorce and from public  divorce records. But she, at one point, stated in an affidavit that she thought  that he needed some kind of mental health assistance or psychiatric help and  that he refused to take it.     So I can't really tell you. Whether or not we're looking at a long  downward slide or sort of spikes a variant behavior is something that we -- I  really can't say definitively. It could be one or the other.   
COSTELLO: All right. It is a fascinating article. It's in the "New York Times" this morning. You can get it online, too, thenewyorktimes.com. Richard Fausset,  thank you so much for joining me this morning me.   
FAUSSET: Thanks Carol.  
COSTELLO: Welcome. Still to come in the NEWSROOM, a major mystery in Alaska. What happened to the mayor of Juneau?   
 COSTELLO: Just weeks after taking office, the new mayor of Juneau, Alaska is found dead in his home. Nobody can figure out how he died. His body  was found with injuries. Many people wonder if he was assaulted. CNN's Randi  Kaye has more for you.       
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: About 3:30 in the afternoon, the 911 call came in. Mayor Steven Greg Fisk of Juneau, Alaska was dead.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: At about 3:34, we received a 911 call from a man, and there was someone who appeared to be deceased inside. The officers were on scene in  about four minutes.   
COSTELLO: mysterious deaths like this one, let alone the mayor, rarely occur in this remote capital city of 32,000. A community tucked away on Alaska'  panhandle, often reached by boat and sea plane.    The strange circumstances have many in town speculating about what happened. The  detectives here are, for now, stumped. The mayor's son had gone to check on him  Monday afternoon after getting word that others in town were having trouble  reaching him. After he looked inside the home where his father lived alone,  neighbors said the son could be heard shouting. That's when he called 911.  Officers rushed to the scene, but the mayor was already dead.   
KAYE: Right now there are more questions than answers. Juneau police say they found no sign of forced entry, and they've also concluded that Mayor Fisk did  not commit suicide. So what happened? Some are already suggesting that the mayor  was assaulted. The police are playing that down. Though the chief did tell the  "Juneau Empire Newspaper" that assault is one of the possibilities out there.  But that it also could have been a fall or something else.    Meanwhile, Juneau's deputy mayor will take over his duties. She was a longtime  friend of Greg Fisk, even taught his son when he was in the sixth grade.   
MARY BECKER, JUNEAU DEPUTY MAYOR: My husband and I are devastated. He was a wonderful person and a friend. And from the calls that I've been receiving  tonight, I'm not the only one who has felt that he was a wonderful person and a  good friend to Juneau.   
KAYE: A neighbor told us Fisk was active and in good shape. He hiked and swam often. She said he had a great smile and was a great guy. Greg Fisk was elected  mayor just about two months ago. He won with 66 percent of the vote over the  incumbent mayor after running a very positive campaign. He was looking forward  to diversifying Juneau's economy and improving the housing market and fixing a  tight budget. But all of that is on hold as mystery now hangs over this town.   
BECKER: It's -- it's just so devastating to have this happen. It's basically unbelievable.   
KAYE: Randi Kaye, CNN, New York.      
COSTELLO: Still to come in the NEWSROOM, talk about the ultimate birth announcement. Up next, what Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg is pledging in  honor of his daughter's birth.    But first, here's a look at our CNN heroes.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our heroes don't fly. They soar.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't see barriers. I see solutions.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Connecting with the communities along the way helps re-establish your faith in humanity.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Love you.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Love you, too.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Don't give up on yourself because you're still worthy.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: See the stars come out to celebrate the change makers.  
KATHY GRIFFIN, TV HOST: We all love to pay tribute, and this is a way we really can.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's people who are living the work that they're doing every day 
. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's going to be really, really inspiring.
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: Welcome to CNN heroes.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Please join me in honoring CNN hero.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There's no time to waste.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The top ten CNN heroes of 2015.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's an honor to be recognized.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is an amazing honor.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Join Anderson Cooper for "CNN HEROES: AN ALL- STAR TRIBUTE" Sunday night at 8:00.       
 COSTELLO: Forget the cigars, Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife are celebrating the birth of their daughter by giving away a large part  of their fortune. The couple is pledging to donate 99 percent of their Facebook  stock to humanitarian projects and charities over the course of their lives. The  shares are currently valued at a whopping $45 billion. Zuckerberg says he simply  wants to make the world a better place to live for his new baby girl, Max.    Laurie Segall joins me now with more. Wow. What a grand gesture.   
LAURIE SEGALL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes.  
COSTELLO: I can't even think of an appropriate adjective.  
SEGALL: I know. And of course putting it out there on Facebook for the world to see -- very, very Mark Zuckerberg. It's pretty unbelievable. He's also I mean --  he previously donated $1.6 billion to charitable funds, but this is really  taking it to a new level.    I want to share with you a video that they posted last night because it was very  intimate moment. They actually shot this a few weeks before. When you can see  Mark Zuckerberg is so excited for Priscilla to have this baby. And they talk  about why they want to do this. Take a listen.       
PRISCILLA CHAN, WIFE OF MARK ZUCKERBERG: Mark is really looking forward to meeting her.   
MARK ZUCKERBERG, FACEBOOK CEO: Well, I mean, it's been 37 weeks. So I think it's time for her to come out. Having this child has made us think about all of the  things that should be improved in the world for her whole generation. The only  way that we reach our full human potential is if we're able to unlock the gifts  of every person around the world.       
SEAGALL: Now, Carol, in order to actually cause some change, they've created what they're calling the Chan-Zuckerberg initiative. This isn't a nonprofit. If  not all this money isn't going to specifically go to charity. A lot of it could,  but they're also -- they have the ability to invest or lobby for legislation.  And also pick what they want to donate to over time.     So it will be interesting to see what they actually decide to choose.  I know that Mark Zuckerberg has been very interested in education. And he's also  grown a lot as a philanthropist as he's gone to this role and built this huge  company.    But I will say this. Even if he keeps 1 percent of his shares, Mark Zuckerberg  is still going to be worth $450 million. He's still a very, very rich man. I  have a feeling Max will grow up very comfortable, Carol.   
COSTELLO: Yes. I'm glad about that. I also understand he's going to take, what, two months of paternity leave?   
SEGALL: Yes. I thought this was actually pretty unique. I mean Facebook has always kind of been at the forefront of offering these work/life balance perks  to maintain talent and kind of put a message out there. They offer four months  for parental leave. He's saying he's going to actually take two months. So for a  CEO at this level, also this young to really say ok, not only are we offering  this, but I'm going to take it is really sending a message out. I think others  might follow suit. You're already looking at Netflix and Microsoft who are  offering more parental leave. I think Silicon Valley companies have kind of --  and this probably in an effort to made talent and really promote their companies  and keep people there have been offering things like this. I think it's a pretty  big deal that he's actually going to take this. He's actually going to do it.   
COSTELLO: Well, I think it is because I read some poll not long ago that said the majority of Americans don't think fathers should take paternity leave which  was interesting to me. So at least he's setting an example that, you know, it's  a good thing to do this not only for yourself but especially for your child.   
SEGALL: You know, Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla, his wife, Dr. Chan, I mean they are in this very unique position where everybody watches what they do. He's  created this social network with billions of people on it. And if they put  something out there, people follow.    I think what was so interesting about this pregnancy, too, I mean he spoke  openly. They wrote openly about some of their struggles with Priscilla having  multiple miscarriages. I think that they are in this opportunity, and a lot of  people really opened up after they put this out there. They're in an opportunity  to really kind of start a conversation and do it on the social network that they  created.   
COSTELLO: Awesome. Lori Seagal, many thanks.   Just when you finally got Gangnam style out of your head, the Korean pop star  Psy is back, this time showing off what he says he got from his daddy. People  seem to like it.    His new music video already has close to 10 million views, including Jeanne  Moos.       
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: He came riding that invisible horse on to the world stage three years ago.    Now, the question is, can he lasso the success of "Gangnam Style" with "Daddy"?  He's back, playing the part of baby and kid, daddy and grandpa all at once.    And while media may say, "We're so sorry you had to see this horrifying  brilliant video full of coordinated flailing", what matters is whether young  people flail along with it.    He introduced himself back in 2012.   
PSY: I'm Psy from Korea. How are you?  
MOOS: Ended up being impersonated and playing himself on "SNL". Psy taught the horsey dance to everyone from Britney Spears and Ellen, to the gang on the  "Today" show.    Lassoing for dear life, Psy even handed the reins to the Secretary-General of  the United Nations.   
BAN KI-MOON, U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL: You are so cool.  
MOOS: And then there's the psychology of Psy, who told reporters what a struggle it's been, how much pressure he's been under to come up with a song that's equal  to his first mega hit.    Practically mission impossible, even for daddy. "Daddy," by the way, is part  homage to the Will.i.am song.    "Daddy" is racking up millions of views.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going to lie. I enjoyed it.  
MOOS: The favorite lyric, "You be my curry, I'll be your rice."   Psy is hoping it's a dish the whole family will like.    Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.       
COSTELLO: You be my curry, I'll be your rice. That is such a beautiful sentiment, isn't it?    All right. Thank you so much for joining me today. I'm Carol Costello.    "AT THIS HOUR" with Berman and Bolduan starts now.   
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN HOST: Controversy sure doesn't hurt Donald Trump, so says the polls. But it sure is hurting his closest rival, it appears, in a brand new race  for number two.    Did the White house ignore warnings about ISIS because it did not fit their  reelection narrative?   
