    
HIGHLIGHT: New information this morning into what could have motivated two shooters to kill 14 people at a California office party. Republican presidential  candidates expressed outrage over the string of mass shootings in the country,  but they said extremism, not gun laws are to blame, and that the White House has  not done enough to fight extremism. Intelligence officials in Europe now suggest  the next target of ISIS could be the United Kingdom and that is could be  planning a new attack.     
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: Nice to see you this morning, John. Happy Friday. It's -- I'm Christine Romans. It's Friday, December 4th. It's 5:00 a.m. in the  East. We welcome all of our viewers in the U.S. and around the world.     All right. That new information this morning on the mass shooting in  southern California that killed 14 and injured 21. Law enforcement scouring the  home and the rented car of Syed Rizwan Farook.    They had uncovered over 1,000 rounds of ammunition and a dozen pipe bombs.  Police have also recovered two smashed cell phones and computer with a missing  hard drive.    We're also learning new details about the married shooters. Authorities say  Farook met Tashfeen Malik two years ago on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. He was  devout, attending services at a local Islamic center twice a day.    And law enforcement officials tell CNN it appears Farook became radicalized. He  had been in touch with a person the FBI suspected of terrorism.    For the latest on all of this, let's get straight to CNN's John Vause in San  Bernardino.       
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Well, John and Christine, while officials continue to search for that motive, a reason why, it's been a night of sadness here in San  Bernardino. Hundreds turned out for memorial services. They gathered at a  sporting stadium. There was a candlelight vigil. Services were also held at the  largest mosque in the county.    And the coroner has officially named all of the victims. They range in age from  26 to 60. And most of the victims had some kind of personal connection to Syed  Rizwan Farook, 12 of the 14 who were killed and 18 of the 21 who were wounded  worked with him at the county office here as well.    And officials say this killing spree could have been so much worse because  Farook and his wife had this massive cache of ammunition, thousands of rounds of  ammunition. Still for the first responders, the first police officer who arrived  on the scene, he described what was essentially carnage inside that conference  center.   
LT. MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPT.: It was unspeakable, the carnage that we were seeing. The number of people who were injured and unfortunately  already dead, and the pure panic on the face of those individuals that were  still in need and needing to be safe. We asked -- we got as many people out as  quickly as we could.   
VAUSE: Sources also say they believe Farook became radicalized. He had contact with a number of people under investigation by the FBI for links to  international terrorism -- John, Christine.       
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right. John, thanks so much.   Survivors of the massacre have told police Rizwan Farook may have been in some  kind of argument at the office gathering. He left angry and came back later with  his wife and with guns. So far it is unclear what the fight, if it did happen,  was about.    The widow of one victim who was killed in the attack says it's possible her  husband could have been involved in that argument. She tells Gary Tuchman her  husband was an outspoken messianic Jew who was openly critical of Muslims.       
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You've been open about this and so is your husband about what he's said about Muslims in the past. What has he said?   
JENNIFER THALASINOS, WIDOW OF VICTIM NICHOLAS THALASINOS: He's very upset about what is has been doing and the radicalized Muslims, al Qaeda, the whole  situation. He's upset about the fact that the majority of the Muslims, you know,  it's like they won't come out and do something about it.   
TUCHMAN: Do you think he talked to Farook about that?  
THALASINOS: He might have.  
TUCHMAN: And do you have any knowledge at all from anyone you've talked to what happened at the function yesterday with Farook?   
THALASINOS: No, I just know that supposedly there was an argument and very as easily could have been an argument with my husband. I wouldn't be surprised.       
ROMANS: County health employees who worked with Farook for five years, they say the attack came as a surprise to them. They say he was well liked, mild  mannered. Co-workers even threw him a baby shower. Now they're shocked and  angry.    Patrick Baccari shared a cubicle with him for years and says his life may have  been saved by a well-timed trip to the bathroom.       
PATRICK BACCARI, SHARED CUBICLE WITH SHOOTER RIZWAN FAROOK: They were giving us a 15-minute break so I went to the rest room. While I was in the rest room, I  finished. I was going to dry my hands, and that's when the attack started.    And I thought somebody booby trapped the towel dispenser because I was being  pummeled as I was pulling the paper towels dispenser. So, I looked back and the  minute I can see, I was bleeding in my temple, my nose. And then there's other  little fragments that hit me all over the place. They're so tiny that unless  they start to fester, they'll probably remain there.       
BERMAN: Overnight, thousands of people took part in memorials across the San Bernardino area like this one in a stadium. Also at churches, schools and  mosques.    We're learning more about the victims. Many who lived through the awful  experience now sharing their stories of survival.    Let's get more now from CNN's Dan Simon in San Bernardino.       
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: John and Christine, you still have a number of people at area hospitals, two people in critical condition.     But the others are either in fair or stable condition, which is  pretty remarkable considering what some of these people had to go through.    Take the example of 24-year-old Kevin Ortiz. He was shot five times. I spoke to  his aunt who told me exactly what he had to go through.   
ROSA ORTIZ, AUNT OF SHOOTING VICTIM: He was sitting down with several of his co-workers and there was a break. And several people stepped out into the  hallway.    He heard gunfire but wasn't sure if it was gunfire. He assumed it was a drill of  some kind.    The doors opened, and he saw two masked people dressed in black. And he still  thought it was a drill. He felt his first shot on his leg but he said he felt  more like if someone just threw something at him. It wasn't really sharp pain  immediately until a few seconds later.    And then he ended up sustaining another shot on the shoulder. So his reaction  then, this is real. Let me get under the table. He got under the table and  according to Kevin, the gunman came back and shot him again.   
SIMON: How many times was he shot?  
ORTIZ: Five times.  
SIMON: He was shot five times.  
ORTIZ: Five times.  
SIMON: Did he think he was going to die?  
ORTIZ: Absolutely. That was one of his shots he shared with us. He was able to make two phone calls. One to his wife and one to his father, and to both of  them, he said that he had been shot, but he was going to be OK and that he loved  them.   
SIMON: We've heard several other stories like that. People who after being shot were able to pick up their cell phone and call loved ones making what they  thought might be good-bye messages. Obviously, there's going to be many  surgeries over the next several days but hopefully many recoveries.    John and Christine, back to you.       
BERMAN: All right. Dan, our thanks to that. Our thoughts are with the victims of this awful, awful event.    President Obama and the Republicans now running for president, they are  discussing the events in San Bernardino. They have different ideas about how to  discuss it, about how it approach it. Issues of gun control and terrorism, all  very much in the spotlight.   
 ROMANS: The San Bernardino massacre having an impact on the politics of gun violence this morning. President Obama considering executive action in an  effort to tighten gun controls. Meantime, virtually, all the presidential  candidates are having to weigh in on the shooting.    Helping us to break it all down, the managing editor for content at CNN  Politics, Steven Sloan.    Good morning, Steven.    So much to talk about. How quickly the conversation changes on the campaign  trail. And it's such a tough, tough conversation to have. Talk to me a little  about the two different, I guess, threads here. You've got the thread on the  Democratic side talking about potentially new efforts to keep guns out of the  hands of people who shouldn't have them. And on the right, it's a very different  conversation.   
STEVEN SLOAN, CNN POLITICS, MANAGING EDITOR FOR CONTENT: Yes, we're having two really different debates going on right now. Democrats, Hillary Clinton,  President Obama, talking about specifically making sure people on the no-fly  list, for instance, can't wind up with guns. Whereas the conversation on the  Republican side isn't about gun control but terrorism itself and saying that  what happened in San Bernardino is an example of terrorism and that's the issue  that needs to be confronted, not the typical gun control fight we've seen emerge  after unfortunately so many of these incidents.   
BERMAN: Well, it's interesting, because the president has been speaking about both things, right? He had a news conference yesterday or he had a statement in  the Oval Office where he went pretty far for a president. He actually said this  could be terrorism, which is not something you hear from a president unless it's  fairly certain to turn out to be true. And then at the end of the statement, he  talked about gun control.    Republicans critical of a separate issue, about the way that the president often  talks about terrorism. They want him to use the words radical Islam. Let's  listen to how Donald Trump talks about it.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We had another event which probably was -- the one yesterday -- probably was related. It always happens. But  probably was. When I heard about it, I figured maybe not but turns out probably  was related -- radical Islamic terrorism.    And I'll tell you what, we have a president that refuses to use the term. He  refuses to say it. There's something going on with him that we don't know about.       
BERMAN: Now the president doesn't use the words radical Islam, does not use the phrase Islamic terrorism per se. What are Republicans hoping to gain with this  line of attack?   
SLOAN: Well, I think what you are seeing here is Republicans are really trying to paint the president as completely out of touch with the issues facing  America. This is an issue that is animating the Republican primary right now,  concerns about terrorism, and they are able to point to Obama's refusal to use  those words as an example of him just being out of touch. It's also something  they're using when trying to attack Hillary Clinton. She's tried to stay away  from that language and say the issue here is really more about fighting the  enemy, not using -- not particular rhetoric like this.   
ROMANS: Although, Hillary Clinton, let's listen to what she said, because she -- she actually sounded a lot like Chris Christie in the way she went and stated  what she thought happened here. Let's listen to what she said about how she  thinks this was an act of terrorism.       
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We will learn more about what went on and who these people were and what their motivations were. But it's becoming  clearer that we are dealing with an act of terrorism.       
ROMANS: And then she went on to talk about how there doesn't need to be 90 people a day lost to gun violence and there are things that can be done to stop  it.     What can -- I mean --   
BERMAN: But it's interesting. She says an act of terrorism. She went out further than the president, by just calling it an act of terrorism is different from  what the Republicans are calling it.   
ROMANS: Right.  
BERMAN: You heard Ted Cruz say it, too. It's different than calling it radical Islamic terrorism -- specific phrase that the Republicans are pushing.   
SLOAN: I think you are seeing her kind of keep up with the developments here. It's interesting to see her evolution on this Wednesday night as all of this was  unfolding. She took to twitter and made a strong statement on gun control. How  many times does this have to happen? We can't allow this to become the new  normal.    You know, fast forward one day and the -- saying pretty strong words about  terrorism. I think she's trying to make sure she's speaking to the Democratic  base but wants to hear strong words about gun control while not seeming out of  touch.   
ROMANS: Sometimes the words "gun control" can be very loaded for people who think that the government is going to come and get their guns. Even the words  "gun control" makes them nervous.    What are we talking about here the White House would like to do? Keep people on  the no-fly list from buying weapons, small, considered -- what some would  consider just small moves.   
SLOAN: Right. This is what -- this is what the president has pointed to, really, ever since this event in San Bernardino. And I think that's what you'll see if  he talks about executive actions.    But we've seen over and over there's no appetite for any type of gun control  measure in Washington. After the Newtown shootings, that was really the moment  to do this, and we've had so many incidents since then and there's been nothing  to indicate there's a willingness for Republicans and Democrats to come together  on this.   
BERMAN: It is worth noting, the shooters in California were not on any kind of no-fly list, not on the FBI radar at all. So there isn't anything out there that  would have prevented them from buying guns as far as we know at this point.   
SLOAN: Right.  
ROMANS: But interesting that someone on the no-fly list could go legally purchase a gun.   
BERMAN: Peter King says he's got a bill for Congress since 2007. He's trying -- Republican Peter King has been pushing thus since 2007.   
SLOAN: Exactly. This is where the debate is going to go over the next few weeks.  
ROMANS: All right. Steven Sloan, thank you so much for that.  
SLOAN: Thank you.  
ROMANS: Intelligence now indicating ISIS is ready to attack in Europe again following the Paris massacre. We're live with what investigators are saying,  next.   
 ROMANS: European intelligence suggests the United Kingdom could be ISIS' next target after Paris and that it is planning an attack. Intelligence  suggests British ISIS fighters have been instructed by senior ISIS operatives to  attack.    CNN senior international correspondent Fred Pleitgen live in London with more.    Certainly, a frightening suspect and something U.K. authorities must be looking  deeply into.   
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, they certainly are and they are taking this very seriously. It was interesting because one of  the things, Christine, that the British Prime Minister David Cameron said  yesterday is he said that since November, so around the time of the Paris  attacks, there have been no less than seven foiled terror plots here in the  United Kingdom.    Now, of course, some of the fears and concerns about possible new attacks are  compounded by the fact that Britain's parliament has also taken a decision as we  know for Britain to participate in air strikes in Syria and, of course, those  airstrikes already started shortly after that debate took place.    Now, it's unclear how imminent this new threat is, but you said it. It seems as  though senior ISIS operatives in Iraq or Syria in is territory in the so-called  caliphate have instructed British ISIS fighters to come here to the United  Kingdom and to conduct attacks.    What we're seeing right now here in Britain is the threat level here is at  severe. It's been that way since August. So far, not being raised to the highest  level, which is critical. But you can certainly feel authorities here are taking  this very, very seriously and really trying to make sure that nothing happens,  especially around this time.   
ROMANS: Fred, what can they do? You know, I mean, specifically in, for example, London. The revelry for Christmas is three weeks of celebrations. People are in  the streets. People are going out.    What different can authorities do? They've been on high alert for years.   
PLEITGEN: Well, they certainly have been on high alert. A lot of this happens in the realm of intelligence, of course. They can try to monitor any sort of  communications. They can increase the monitoring of communications.    Also, of course, they are counting on in the wake of the Paris attacks for  increased cooperation with other intelligence services in Europe as well. What  we're also seeing is increased police presence.    There was a maneuver they did showing them storming a building in an exercise.  Also showing the public that they are ready for whatever will happen.    But again, a lot of this happens behind the scenes. A lot of intelligence work  being done. You do also feel an increase in police presence on the streets as  well, Christine.   
ROMANS: All right. Fred Pleitgen, thanks for that, Fred.  
BERMAN: German lawmakers set to vote this morning to ramp up the country's military operations against ISIS in Syria. A measure considered likely to pass.  The German constitution bars most combat operations on foreign soil, so  airstrikes not a possibility here but the country can expand its military  support role. One possibility is deploying high-tech reconnaissance jets to help  others countries pinpoint targets in Syria and Iraq.   
ROMANS: All branches of the U.S. military will soon be gender neutral. In a historic move, Defense Secretary Ash Carter is opening all jobs in combat units  to women. No exceptions. Prior to his order, some 10 percent of military  positions were still closed to women.     The services must have their plans in place by April 1st.    Time for an early start on your money this Friday morning. U.S. stock futures  look upbeat. European shares lower. Asian stocks, they joined yesterday the  global sell-off after the European central bank failed to deliver a more  dramatic stimulus measures than expected.    That sent stocks tumbling. Look at the Dow, down 252 points. The S&P 500 had its  worst day since September. And a lot more to keep investors on high alert.    Most importantly, today's big jobs report due out in a few hours. The final jobs  report before the Federal Reserve decides whether to raise interest rates.    Here's the CNNMoney prediction: 192,000 jobs added, down from 271,000 in  October. The unemployment rate steady at 5 percent. That's a seven-year low.    Even if the jobs report is less than great they expect interest rates to start  going up later this month. And that means higher rates to buy a house, to buy a  car, higher rates on your credit cards. So, that's something most people will  feel.   
BERMAN: Coming up for us, armed with bombs, a dozen bombs, thousands of bullets and in contact with at least one known terrorist. What we're now learning about  the shooters in California. That's coming up next.   
