    
HIGHLIGHT: The U.S. supports Turkey's right to defend its air space. Putin orders S-400 missiles to Syria after the plane has been shot down. Donald Trump  is under fire for claims of finding Muslims cheering on 9/11. The Colorado  shooting suspect has made an appearance in court.     
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Americans in Afghanistan told of an imminent attack.  
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Al Qaeda-affiliated terrorists may be behind this threat.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's believed to be that this attack would be in part in competition with ISIS.       
CUOMO: Welcome to your NEW DAY. Alisyn and Mick are in New York. We are in Paris with breaking news.    Calls for calm between Russia and Turkey as President Obama sits down with  Turkey's president on the sidelines of the climate change summit here in Paris.  Obama urging presidents Putin and Erdogan to focus on defeating ISIS, rather  than Turkey's shoot-down of a Russian war plane. Now, there is no word of the  three men meeting together.    However, all of this comes, of course, with some 150 world leaders hoping to  make a deal to reduce carbon emissions here at the COP-21. President Obama is  going to hold a news conference next hour before leaving Paris. We're going to  bring that to you.    But right now, let's get CNN senior White House correspondent Jim Acosta, live  at the summit with word on what progress has been made here -- Jim.   
JIM ACOSTA, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Chris, President Obama just wrapped up a meeting, as you said, with Turkey's President Erdogan, making it  very clear which side the U.S. is on when it comes to the NATO ally's dispute  with Russia.    Moscow is still outraged over Turkey's downing of a Russian president Vladimir  Putin refused to meet with Erdogan at this climate summit here in Paris. That  put President Obama basically in the position of playing referee, meeting with  both Putin and Erdogan to deescalate tensions. But Mr. Obama maintains Turkey  has a right to defend its territory and air space. Here's what he had to say.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I want to be very clear. Turkey is a NATO ally. Along with our allies, the United States  supports Turkey's right to defend itself, and its air space and its territory.  And we're very much committed to Turkey's security and its sovereignty. And as I  mentioned to President Erdogan, we all have a common enemy. That is ISIL.       
ACOSTA: For its part, Russia is angrily insisting that Turkey is trying to protect black market oil supply from ISIS, an accusation that Erdogan vehemently  denies. As for President Obama's meeting with Putin yesterday, the White House  is indicating there is still no agreement on some sort of grand coalition with  Russia to go after ISIS. Both sides are still very much at odds over what to do  about Syria's embattled leader, Bashar al-Assad, Chris. Until they get over that  issue, it's going to be very difficult for both sides to come together to go  after ISIS -- Chris.   
CUOMO: Jim Acosta, appreciate the excellent reporting.   And once again, as a reminder, we are going to have live coverage of President  Obama's news conference at 8:40 Eastern. That will be a final word from him  before he departs from the climate change conference here in Paris.    But we already have some new proof that Russia is not on the same page with the  coalition war against ISIS, and that is word that Russia is moving  surface-to-air missiles to a base near the Turkish border. That could put U.S.  combat aircraft at risk flying over Syria.    Vladimir Putin reportedly issued the order a day after Turkey shot down a  Russian warplane. We have more with CNN's Barbara Starr, following the  developments from the Pentagon -- Barbara.   
STARR: Good morning, Chris.   Fast-moving developments in Washington this morning. Defense Secretary Ash  Carter, General Joe Dunford, the chairman of the joint chiefs both scheduled to  testify on Capitol Hill in just a couple of hours.    This testimony comes as now those Russian missiles are active in Syria. The U.S.  officials saying yesterday the S-400 system now up and running by the Russians.  The radar is active. This is a system that can reach out, see all the way into  Turkey, target and potentially shoot down aircraft. U.S. officials don't believe  the Russians are targeting U.S. aircraft.    But, look, it is clear that U.S. pilots are aware of this, are going to have to  be very careful; and the Pentagon is facing the question of what it will do next  with its airstrikes to make sure U.S. pilots are kept safe -- Chris.   
CUOMO: It's an interesting question, what aircraft Russian missiles would be targeting in any air space there, other than the coalition aircraft. So that's  going to be the intrigue on that front.    Now, another front there was a threat that came based out of Kabul, a 48-hour  window was involved. Where are we on that?   
STARR: We are about halfway through that window. It expires early tomorrow morning. The U.S. embassy putting out a statement, warning Americans in Kabul to  be extremely careful that they had this 48-hour window, this information  indicating a credible, imminent threat in Kabul.    The belief, U.S. officials tell me, is that it is the Haqqani network behind all  of it. This is a well-known terrorist network that operates in Pakistan, comes  -- its operatives have been known very often to come across the border and try  and stage attacks inside Afghanistan.    So a very serious warning to Americans in Kabul, if they're not already being  careful, to be even more careful, at least for another day.    Going back to those missiles, Chris, you asked a really interesting question. So  who would the Russians be targeting? The feeling is they are continuing to  potentially target the Turks -- Chris.   
CUOMO: All right. Barbara Starr, thank you very much. We know you'll stay on that threat story coming out of Kabul. Back to you in New York, Alisyn.   
CAMEROTA: OK, Chris. We'll get back to you in a second.   But back here at home, there's politics to talk about. Donald Trump sharpening  his attacks on Hillary Clinton and his GOP rivals at a rally last night, but  it's what Trump did not talk about that's also making news. CNN's Athena Jones  is live from Washington with more. Tell us about this rally.   
ATHENA JONES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Alisyn.   It seems like practically every week we're talking about Trump doubling down or  tripling down on some controversial statement he's made. So it's interesting to  note that he didn't repeat his claims about celebrations on 9/11 last night at  that rally. He did repeat his attacks on his rivals in both parties and he  predicted more of them may soon be attacking him.       
JONES: For more than a week now, Donald Trump has claimed that he saw thousands of Muslims in America celebrating after the 9/11 attacks.   
TRUMP: I watched in Jersey City, New Jersey, where thousands and thousands of people were cheering -- thousands of people, believe me, because they saw it.   
JONES: There is no evidence of such a scene, and on Monday night, Trump avoided rehashing his claims.   
TRUMP: There's only one way you get to the top, and it's all through Trump. Let's face it.   
JONES: Trump instead going after his opponents, attacking Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton.   
TRUMP: She doesn't have the strength or the stamina to be president. She just didn't. She doesn't.   
JONES: Attempting to ward off attacks from Republican rivals by anticipating their jabs.   
TRUMP: Christie hasn't hit me yet. He will. He has to. He has no choice.   Cruz is going to have to hit me, because you know, he's a nice guy. He's been so  supportive. Everything I've said he's supported. It's going to be a sad day, but  we will hit back, I promise.   
JONES: New Jersey governor and 2016 hopeful Chris Christie now joining the list of critics taking on Trump's 9/11 claims.   
CHRISTIE: It's wrong. It's just wrong. It's factually wrong.  
JONES: Earlier Monday, the candidate emerged from a closed-door meeting with black pastors in New York City.   
TRUMP: I thought it was an amazing meeting.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We asked questions, and the questions were answered. We were all satisfied with the answers.   
JONES: Initially promoted as a sweeping endorsement from these religious leaders, Trump's camp was later forced to pull back that claim as several of the  attendees clarified that they were just there to talk.   
BISHOP VICTOR COUZENS, VSC MINISTRIES: I'm not here to endorse Mr. Trump. It's very unfortunate the way he has talked to not just the African-American  community but things he said about women and Mexicans and Muslims. It's very  discouraging.       
JONES: It's noteworthy to see the Trump campaign to have to take a step back on this black pastors endorsement. It's the first time I can think of that he's  walked back something.    He'll be in New Hampshire tonight, and we'll, of course, be watching very  closely to see what he has to say up there -- Alisyn.   
CAMEROTA: Absolutely. Athena, thanks so much for all that background.   Let's bring in someone now who knows what happened on 9/11 better than most  anyone. Rudy Giuliani was, of course, the former mayor of New York City. He was  also a 2008 presidential candidate.    Mr. Mayor, thanks so much for being here.   
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER MAYOR OF NEW YORK CITY: Thanks for having me.  
CAMEROTA: You were more plugged in and on the ground on 9/11 than anyone. Were there thousands of Muslims celebrating the towers coming down in New Jersey?   
GIULIANI: I sure can't say that. We tried to track the Muslim community, actually, for a different reason. The night of September 11, I said to the  people of New York, I don't want you to take revenge, anger against people who  are Arab, who are -- I'm not sure if I used the word "Muslim" -- because we  don't want to engage in group blame the way they did.    And it's a small group of people. They are determined. They're very dangerous.  We're going to have to catch them, and they deserve to be executed. But it's not  everyone. I don't want the people of New York to act that way.    So the police department set up a unit, and we kept track of it for about three  or four weeks. And we had some attacks. And we did have some celebrating. That  is true. We had pockets of celebration, some in Queens, some in Brooklyn.   
CAMEROTA: How many people?  
GIULIANI: Ten, 12, 30, 40.  
CAMEROTA: Those weren't just rumors? Those weren't just reports.  
GIULIANI: No, no, no.  
CAMEROTA: You went out and checked them out?  
GIULIANI: We had one situation in which a candy store owned by a Muslim family was celebrating that day. Right near a housing development and the kids in the  housing development came in and beat them up.     And I think both facts were corroborated to be true. They were  celebrating that the towers had come down. And some of the kids in the housing  development got really upset about it, and they came in and did a pretty good  job of beating them up.   
CAMEROTA: OK. So a handful of isolated incidents you're saying...  
GIULIANI: Yes. I was very -- I was very proud of that. You know, we expected a lot of it. Bernie Kerik was the police commissioner at the time. We expected --  because the angle was so great. We expected a lot of irrational acts of violence  against people who appeared to be Islamic or Muslim.   
CAMEROTA: You expected violence against Muslims. You were expecting... GIULIANI: And we had very little. We had some language. We had some yelling and screaming.  I can't give you a count of the number of acts of violence. But nothing really  serious. And we did have some. We did have some reports...   
CAMEROTA: Yes.  
GIULIANI: Of people celebrating that day while the towers were coming down.  
CAMEROTA: But if there had been thousands of people...  
GIULIANI: That I think I would have known that for sure.  
CAMEROTA: Yes. So Donald Trump is, therefore, not telling the truth?  
GIULIANI: Well, I think what he's doing is exaggerating. Right? People were celebrating. He's right about that.   
CAMEROTA: But you're saying a handful of people.  
GIULIANI: I didn't see any evidence of thousands. Nor have I seen it since then of thousands of people.   
CAMEROTA: Why are you -- why do you seem to be hedging? Why don't you say, "No, that didn't happen"?   
GIULIANI: I don't know if it didn't happen.  
CAMEROTA: But you would have known if thousands of people in New Jersey...  
GIULIANI: I would have known if it happened in some part of New Jersey. I think I would have known.   
CAMEROTA: You don't think that would have come through your office if thousands of extremists were celebrating? You don't think your office would have...   
GIULIANI: I think it would have. I think I would have. I don't think it happened. He keeps saying it did. I don't want to say -- I don't want to say  he's not telling the truth about it.   
CAMEROTA: Why not?  
GIULIANI: Because let him deal with it. Let him explain it to people. Let him show the evidence of it.    If thousands of people were demonstrating, and he saw it on television, there  must be some tape of it somewhere. If it shows up, it will corroborate him. If  it doesn't show up, it's going to make him look really bad.   
CAMEROTA: Does the truth matter?  
GIULIANI: Of course the truth matters. To somebody who spent most of his life practicing law and watching people sworn on the witness stand, the truth matters  a lot.   
CAMEROTA: So then what's going on in this election? Why is Donald Trump allowed to say things that, had you said that when you were running for president, what  would have happened?   
GIULIANI: I would have been thrown out of the race.   He's -- he is judged by a different standard. Maybe it's because of his  background on "The Apprentice" and an entertainer and the fact that all -- he's  been a big personality. He almost like speaks in headlines, gets your attention.  And then -- and then a lot of the points they make is very substantive. But the  headline turns out to be exaggerated.    For example, from the very beginning, most of the people coming over are  rapists, murders and killers. Wrong. Most of the people coming over are good  people. In between those good people there are rapists, murderers and killers.   
CAMEROTA: So is he doing a service or a disservice to the Republican Party by...?   
GIULIANI: I think he's helping the other candidates get a lot more attention than they otherwise would get. Look at all the time we're spending on the  Republican primary. It gives a chance for Chris Christie. I saw the interview a  few minutes ago. It gives a chance for Chris Christie to contrast himself and  give his view point. It got, my gosh, the debate, got numbers I would have died  for.   
CAMEROTA: Yes.  
GIULIANI: I wish I had 22 million people watching our debates back in '07 and '08. We had 11 debates.   
CAMEROTA: Yes. I mean, people are certainly more engaged.  
GIULIANI: So it gives the other candidates, if they're good, it gives them a chance to -- it gives them a chance to rise. I think that's why Rubio is doing  well. I think you're going to see Christie do a lot better now than he has  backing the...   
CAMEROTA: The Trump tide lifts all boats, you think?  
GIULIANI: It gets more attention, and now you get your chance to make your case. If you can't make it better than Donald, Donald's going to win.   
CAMEROTA: Chris Christie, as you heard in Jamie Gangel's piece, he was unequivocal. He now says about the celebrating, "It didn't happen. I would have  known about it. There's no film or video to prove it. It didn't happen."   
GIULIANI: Well, he would have. He was U.S. attorney. I believe he was the U.S. attorney at the time.   
CAMEROTA: Well, he wasn't -- by the way, the attorney general of New Jersey said it didn't happen. They were false reports.   
GIULIANI: They would know. If there were false reports of such things happening.  
CAMEROTA: There were false reports of celebrating. When they checked them out, they -- they were bogus?   
GIULIANI: I didn't know even that. There were false reports of celebrating in New Jersey. I did not track New Jersey. I tracked New York.   
CAMEROTA: Fair enough.  
GIULIANI: There were no such -- no such large demonstrations now. In fairness, there were pockets of demonstrations, which got me pretty darn angry. I kept my  anger under control. Anybody celebrating September 11 at that point, to me, the  anger had to be -- I had to control.   
 CAMEROTA: Of course. But is it time for the other candidates like Chris Christie to begin calling out things that they think are demonstrably  untrue by Donald Trump?   
GIULIANI: I think they have. And I think they've tried to do it. Also not take the bait. Then it all becomes all about Donald Trump. I mean, here we are  talking about Donald Trump. And we've got a crisis in Iran and Iraq and Syria.    We've got the United States and Russia unable to agree on what to do in Syria  with this tremendous divide over Assad. We've got Russian missiles. Who the heck  knows what they're doing to do to Turkish planes. We've got the climate summit.  We've got -- and here we are talking about Donald Trump.   
CAMEROTA: So who do you think would be the best person to navigate through all of that as the next president?   
GIULIANI: I think -- I've always thought Jeb was the best qualified in terms of just the range of qualifications. Not sure he's the best candidate. I think  Christie, Rubio are better candidates. Trump is a better candidate.   
CAMEROTA: But that's different. I mean, obviously. being a good candidate is different than being a president.   
GIULIANI: But that's how you get nominated. And that's why I think it's going to be very, very close. I think this is one that's going to -- you're going to see  -- of the four people I just mentioned, I think you're going to see some of them  win some of those primaries. This is going to get down to -- get down to a New  York primary, a California primary.   
CAMEROTA: You think that those four -- you predict that those four will be neck and neck.   
GIULIANI: Oh, wait a second. Then on the right I think Cruz is a -- I think Cruz will be the Huckabee or Santorum of this...   
CAMEROTA: Of Iowa.  
GIULIANI: Because I think Iowa ultimately goes to the more religious right-wing candidate. Huckabee was a minister. Santorum was the most religious right.  Huckabee beat me. Santorum won. Four years later he beat Romney. Now, they  didn't go on and get the nomination, but they took over the right...   
CAMEROTA: Now, do you think Cruz...  
GIULIANI: Well, once Cruz does that, he sort of takes over the right wing of the party. That keeps him in it for a long time.    Then I see New Hampshire going to somebody else. New Hampshire could go to  Trump. It could go to Christie. It could come out of -- and it could go to  Rubio. I mean, those three.    And does Bush have a chance? Yes, Bush has a chance. Bush still has a chance,  particularly as we focus on national security and we focus on who's ready to,  you know, protect the country.   
CAMEROTA: I'm going to ask you about this -- Donald Trump's meeting with pastors yesterday. He had said that he was going to get the endorsement of 11  African-American pastors. That didn't end up happening. In fact, it turned out  that it was more heated in the room. They objected to some of the rhetoric that  he's been using on the campaign trail.    But once again, he didn't -- he said that they supported him. And, you know,  he...   
GIULIANI: He is the consummate performer. I mean, he's fabulous at handling interviews. He's fabulous at handling difficult situations and turning them  around, you know, making lemon -- lemonade out of lemon. He's great at it.    But, I mean, the reality is, that was probably -- I've had that happen. That  probably was a staff screw-up. But unlike somebody else that would go -- he made  it work right.    So yes, as a politician, you say to yourself, that's a heck of a talent to have.  On the other hand, some of the exaggerations make you, you know, raise  questions.   
CAMEROTA: Rudy Giuliani, always great to get your take on all of this.  
GIULIANI: Thank you.  
CAMEROTA: Thanks so much for being here on NEW DAY.   Mark your calendars. The CNN Republican debate is just two weeks from tonight.  Wolf Blitzer will moderate the last GOP debate of the year on Tuesday, December  15, 9 p.m. Eastern right here on CNN -- Michaela 
. PEREIRA: Turning to anotherbig story, we're following the man accused of killing three people and wounding nine others at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic made his first court  appearance. Robert Dear being held on suspicion of first-degree murder as  investigators try to determine a motive for that shooting rampage. Stephanie  Elam is live in Colorado Springs this morning for us with the latest --  Stephanie.   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Michaela.   When you take a look at his first court appearance, you could see he's wearing a  padded vest, and he seems to be groggy through most of what he was being told.  His eyes were closed. He only spoke a handful of times.    But Robert Lewis Dear is looking at, on the minimum side, life in prison and, on  the maximum side, the death penalty. He'll find out the full charges against him  at his next hearing on December 9.    Now, we know that he's being held without bond, but we also know that he has had  a history of a little bit of run-ins with law enforcement. Nothing like he's  been accused of so far. But let me just give you an idea here.    In 1997, he was accused of domestic assault in South Carolina by his then wife.  Those charges were not actually pressed.     And moving on to 2002, he was accused of being a peeping tom. Those  charges were dismissed.    And then in 2003, he was arrested and charged with two counts of animal cruelty.  But when that went to trial, he was found not guilty.    Still, when you look at his history, there is nothing like what he is accused of  now: murdering three people outside the Planned Parenthood and injuring nine  people, including five police officers. And there are plenty of witnesses on  hand, as well.    So a lot here on the docket against Robert Lewis Dear, Michaela.   
PEREIRA: All right. Thanks for that update. And again, he'll face the former charges next week. Thank you, Stephanie.    We turn back to Paris now and Chris.   
CUOMO: All right, Mick, obviously, the COP-21 summit is news in and of itself. But it's even more important right now because of where it's taking place, in  Paris. And there is a very active manhunt going on right now, obviously, for  this eighth attacker from the Paris attacks just two weeks ago.    We have new details also coming out about the man who planned the attacks. Were  there other -- was there a wave of terror ready to go in Paris? We have experts  weighing in with the latest intel.   
 CUOMO: We have news in the terror investigation here in France. Intelligence officials announcing that the fugitive Paris suspect may have  escaped to Syria. This as we're learning new details about another wave of mass  murder that the alleged planner of the attacks here in Paris may have been  plotting, again, to strike in and around this metropolis.    Joining us now is CNN terrorist analyst and editor in chief of the terrorism  studies journal, "CTC Sentinel," Mr. Paul Cruickshank; and CNN counterterrorism  analyst and former CIA counterterrorism official, Mr. Phil Mudd.    Mr. Cruickshank, I start with you. Please excuse the sirens here. Just part of  daily life in Paris. What does it mean that there is somewhat of a disconnect  between what the French theory is, that this eighth attacker may have made it to  Syria, and the Belgian intelligence officials, who say they have no reason to  believe that?   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: I think there's a very short answer. They just don't know where he is. He could have got to Syria. That's one theory  that the French have. But he could equally still be somewhere in Brussels,  hiding out in a basement.    His last known location was the Saturday after the attack when he was  transported by a friend to the Brussels district of Schaerbeek. That's pretty  near the center of Brussels, a large area, plenty of places where he could  potentially hide out, if he's got a sympathizer there that the police don't know  about.    So I think it's just they don't really know where he is. And that's alarming in  and of itself. The police just don't know where he is. Which is unfortunate  because this is a guy that could be armed and dangerous.   
CUOMO: True. Mr. Mudd, wrap your head around this. If this guy did make it back to Syria, what kind of welcome do you get there when you didn't go through with  the mission? While I would say that argues a little bit for his humanity. What  do bad guys do with someone like this?   
PHIL MUDD, CNN COUNTERTERRORISM ANALYST: First, let's be clear here. There's speculation that he didn't go through with the mission. I think there's a small  chance that he never intended to go through it from the start. That he wanted to  encourage his fellow attackers. And he pretended to participate and later backed  out. I don't know if that's true, Chris.    I just want to say that speculation, that cowardice or some sort of lack of  courage led him to stop with the mission is just that, speculation. Once he  returns, there's a couple of things that will happen.    And first, the organization will try to use him for propaganda purposes, not  only to show how they evaded European security services but to show potential  recruits that there are people like them who have joined the organization and  who have succeeded in staging attacks as tragic as what we saw in France.    The last thing I'd say, Chris, is the most worrisome. There are going to be very  few people in ISIS who now have the operational sophistication he has. How to  operate securely before an attack and how to escape after an attack. So the  long-term implications if he's returned mean that ISIS will use him to figure  out what the next attack looks like and how to get around security services.   
CUOMO: Although as you know, Mr. Cruickshank, right now, a lot of the intel officials are saying if he got through, he did it by luck.    Let me ask you, what is your take on the state of play with security in and  around Paris? You know, I've been hearing that they're very happy with how the  summit has gone so far. But they believe that their hardest work is still in  front of them.   
CRUICKSHANK: Well, that's right. I think it's going to be very difficult for a terrorist group like ISIS to attack the inner perimeter of the summit. There's  clearly huge security.    But ISIS has been going after soft targets. So, you know, I think there is  concern that they could strike somewhere else in Paris, somewhere else in  France.    The network behind the Paris attacks is largely intact. There are a number of  French operatives who have climbed up the hierarchy of ISIS who were behind this  plot, this attack and a number of other plots against France over the last year,  chief among them, Fabien Clain, who claimed responsibility for ISIS and who's  involved in that French- language magazine, "Dar el-Islam," which yesterday had  the new issue, saying that the storm against France was beginning the new  attack, were in the pipelines.    I think we need to take ISIS at their word, because the intelligence suggests,  and I've been told this by European security officials that Clain and others are  recruiting more and more youngsters coming in from Europe to join the Islamic  state and then sending them back after pretty quick training, sending them back  to Europe to plot new violence.   
CUOMO: Well, also, Phil Mudd, there is another theory being worked by the intel community here that there were more attacks planned but not necessarily by the  same team. And that is energizing their efforts to figure out how broad this  network could be. Is that a same assumption?   
MUDD: I think it's a safe assumption for a couple of reasons. The attacks you're talking about, the potential targets are targets that would have been, if  anything, more tragic than what we witnessed a few weeks ago. For example,  targets that included transportation. The same targets that al Qaeda hit in  London and Madrid ten years ago.   
