    
HIGHLIGHT: Two suspects in the California mass shooting are dead. Interview with San Bernardino Mayor Carey Davis. Fourteen people dead, 17 wounded in a San  Bernardino, California, office building massacre and the attackers killed hours  later in a shootout with police.     
 CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: -- the deadliest mass shooting since Newtown, Connecticut. Two of the shooters have been brought to the ground and  killed by officers here at the end of this very dramatic shootout. And 14 were  murdered just up the street from where we are now, the social service center, 17  others were injured. There are two different hospitals, varying degrees of  injuries.    The big question now is, why did these shooters open fire at an office Christmas  party? Investigators are on it. They are running in a lot of different  directions. They do know this. The shooters, again, were killed. Officers  believe those were the two shooters. They believe they have their two suspects,  and they are dead.    There were earlier reports of a third shooter. That is no longer according to  the authorities a real element to this. They don't believe there is a third.  That said, investigators are still very much trying to figure out who knew. Were  there more involved in this?    Police say just before the shooting the male suspect involved was in a fight at  that same holiday party. But is that what motivated this? There are a lot of  questions as to whether it could be the sole motivation. Why? When he returned  with his accomplice, now known to be his wife, they were very planned. They had  tactical gear, they had long guns, short guns, a potential explosive device that  they had. So what was the trigger in this case? Was this the motivation or was  this something that had been planned for quite some time?    We're going to talk to the mayor of San Bernardino about it in a moment, but  let's take you through each part of this story in terms of what we know and what  we are still waiting to find out. We have Victor Blackwell. He's live in  Redlands, California. That's where police drought down the shooters, and it was  really a manhunt at that point on. Victor, tell us about it.   
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Chris, first let me tell you in just the last few minutes investigators have now returned to this neighborhood. We've  seen several go back inside the home of at least one of the shooters here, Syed  Farook. We know that overnight bomb technicians worked to give the home the full  clear all clear of any explosives. They searched a vehicle outside. But we know  as we give you a live look now of the investigators who are here going in and  out of the town home that the search for evidence to answer the question you  posed at the top of the broadcast, why? And if there is anyone else, maybe  someone supporting the two that carried out this terrible massacre.       
BLACKWELL: Breaking overnight, two shooters in San Bernardino's mass shooting identified. Police say the shooters, 28-years-old Syed Rizwan Farook and  27-year-old Tashfeen Malik were shot dead in this black SUV at the end of a  massive manhunt. Overnight a SWAT team sweeping this Redlands home for  explosives.   
JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE CHIEF: Until we know the motive or we really have a clear, something clear evidentiary based on that motive, I just  don't want to weigh in on that right now. We have not ruled out terrorism.   
BLACKWELL: The massacre began around 11:00 a.m. at the Inland regional center. Authorities say the county's health department was having a holiday party at the  time. Police say Farook was an inspector for the department. He abruptly left  the holiday party after a dispute and came back they think alongside Malik,  opening fire.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I heard rapid shooting, just boom, boom, boom.  
BLACKWELL: Armed with AR-15 style rifles and two semi-automatic handguns, investigators say the shooters came equipped, dressed in tactical gear. Family  members receiving gut wrenching messages from loved ones that an active shooting  was taking place.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shooting at my work, people shot, in the office waiting for cops.   
BLACKWELL: This was the frightening scene inside.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you ready?  
BLACKWELL: Dozens of employees being led to safety by police officers.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Try to relax. Everyone try to relax.  
BLACKWELL: The shooters killing 14, wounding 17 more. The pair fleeing in a black SUV, prompting police, FBI and SWAT teams to launch a massive manhunt.  Hours later a tip leading authorities to the Redlands home where they spotted a  suspicious SUV resulting in a wild police chase. About two miles from Inland  regional center Police engage in a bloody shootout with this black SUV, both  shooters now dead.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What is your exact location?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're at San Bernardino and Sheddin. One guy down. One guy in the back of a car.   
BLACKWELL: Law enforcement sources tell CNN Farook is a U.S. citizen, and a relative says he and Malik had a six month old baby girl.   
FARHAN KHAN, SUSPECT SYED FAROOK'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: I spoke to him like a week ago.   
BLACKWELL: His brother-in-law at a loss for words.  
KHAN: I'm very sad that people lost their life. And the victims out there, I wish speedy recovery to them. And again, I am in shock why he would do something  like this. I have absolutely no idea. I am in shock myself.       
 BLACKWELL: So obviously the shock from Farook's family. But investigators again are here on the scene. And their expectation is that there  will be something inside the home, maybe some writings, maybe a laptop,  electronics, something that will give them answers to the questions that so far  have not been answered about this massacre, Chris.   
CUOMO: This is a very complex investigation, Victor. Thank you for taking us through that element of the reporting.    Investigators basically running in two directions. One, it does seem pre-planned  for so many different reasons. It doesn't feel as though it could have been a  spontaneous workplace type incident. Why? Earlier in the day there was a cover  story given to the grandmother when they handed off their six-month-old.  Remember, these suspects had a six month old child together. They gave a bogus  story about the doctor's appointment.    But that falls into the conflict with what happened at the end of the shooting  up the street from us when 14 people were murdered and 17 more injured, which is  the two didn't stick around to finish the fight and they didn't apparently have  anything to blow themselves up. The explosive device wasn't seen as being  effective for that.    And yet when they fled the scene they stayed locally. So that is very  conflicting and doesn't line up as the typical terror situation for  investigators. That's why they're taking it very slowly and methodically and we  are doing that along with them.    Now, what is understood by everybody is that this was a horrific thing to live  through. Literally through the streets of San Bernardino you had gunfire blazing  out as police moved very quickly and bravely to stop this situation. Local  residents were literally getting out their cell phones and capturing moments of  it. We have some we just obtained now. Here it is.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's the -- po-po. Damn. Holy - guys. Shots rang out. Holy --  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, my gosh. Guy guys outside my house right now. There's cops all over the -- yard. Holy -- I just got shot at my in any -- yard. No --  way. My house is getting shot up right now. Holy --   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stay back.      
CUOMO: Imagine being one of those officers receiving fire from people you know are murders, who you know had long guns, and still continuing the chase and  making sure they didn't get away. Brave and quick police work by any estimation.  So who were they chasing and what was going on here? We're getting new  information right now. So let's get to CNN's national security correspondent Jim  Sciutto. Jim, what have you learned?   
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Chris, new information now. We are told by multiple sources that this shooter was not known to the FBI prior to  yesterday's shooting. That by itself not necessarily unusual. There are lots of  people law enforcement doesn't know about until they act. But key here, he did  not have a history known to law enforcement.    So let's talk about what is known now about the shooters. Main shooter, Syed  Rizwan Farook, 28-years-old. He worked at the inland regional center where the  shooting took place. In fact he was at that holiday party as we reported on the  air before. He left after a possible altercation. Came back. This is key. He  came back with a woman, believed to be his wife, Tashfeen Malik, 27-years-old.  We are told by sources that they were married. Extremely unusual in active  shooter situation to have multiple shooters, one, a man and a woman, two, and a  man and a woman who are married, one of the many unusual details about this.    There was, as you just mentioned, Chris, a third person detained. No believed  connection to the shooting at least at this point.    Let's go on. He had a profile, Farook did, as many people do on social media.  Here is how he described himself, that he was a religious but a modern man,  family of four. He identifies as the Muslim but with eastern and western mix of  family values. In social profiles people often put up details about themselves.  He said he enjoyed target practice in his backyard. One of the details, we don't  know the significance but could become significant as we move forward.    Let's talk about the weapons found at the scene. So you have two long rifles as  we said from the beginning. A 223 caliber assault rifle, AR-15. It should be  familiar to many Americans. You'll have seen it. Many cops use them. Many  soldiers use them. The also had two semiautomatic handguns, both of them made by  Smith and Wesson.     Details about how they got them, those two handguns purchased legally  by Farook. The two long rifles purchased by someone else who police, at least at  this point, do not believe was involved in the shooting.    And one more thing here now. They had explosives on them. They intended it  appears to carry out more mayhem. Interesting detail, those explosives rigged,  it appears, to a toy. In effect a remote control car. The remote found in the  SUV. The presence of that there shows that they intended to kill more perhaps.    One final thing. There were no writings found in the SUV so far. Oftentimes with  shootings like this you might find a manifesto, something that explains their  motivation. They don't have that yet. And Chris, multiple people I've talked to  about this, counterterror officials, people briefed in the investigation say at  this point they are not ruling out any explanation for this, any motivation,  whether it be terrorism, workplace violence, or some combination of the two.  Chris?   
CUOMO: Jim, thank you very much for the new information. There is no question investigators are running in a lot of different situations. If this man left the  country, that is going to be a very important consideration. Their big question  right now is, who knew? Where did they learn how to make this explosive device?  There are a lot of roads to go through in terms of suspects, but they are also  dealing with the reality of what they do know which is what happened here, 14  lives taking, 17 others in various states of injury in two different hospitals.  This is a community that has been and hit hard.    Let's bring in the mayor of San Bernardino, Carey Davis. Mr. Mayor, sorry to  meet you under these circumstances. I know this affects you very deeply on a  personal as well as a political level as a servant of this community. How are  you this morning?   
MAYOR CAREY DAVIS, SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA: I'm well. Good morning. We're dealing with the situation as best we can. Our police department, fire  department, neighboring law enforcement agencies brought to bear the full force,  if they could. They responded effectively, as fast as they could and secured the  situation. They were able to diffuse it as quickly as possible.    Our hearts go out to the families of the victims. We want them to know we'll  continue to support them anyway we can. Of course public safety is our first  priority has been and will continue to be. That being said, though, we still  want to make sure we're not paralyzed by the violent crime that's been committed  in our community.   
CUOMO: How are you processing the situation right now, what was done to you here and why?   
DAVIS: The why is still an active investigation. We'll leave that to law enforcement, the experts that are unraveling it at this time. I don't believe it  is appropriate for us to try to speculate as to what the motive was. That will  certainly probably come out as time passes.   
CUOMO: It would make a big difference in terms of your community if these two wind up being an isolated couple of, you know, basically nuts who are just up to  inhumane actions for their own reasons. That is one thing. If it winds up that  this is part of a bigger effort to bring death here, it is going to be a  different challenge for you.   
DAVIS: You are absolutely right. It will be. However, communities throughout the United States are dealing with violence and crime.   
CUOMO: Right. DAVIS: It is an issue that will not go away overnight. And we continue to strive to improve the quality of life in our community. We will  continue to work towards those efforts. Our police department, fire department,  all the departments in our community came to the rescue as quickly as they  could. We couldn't ask for a more effective response. They are highly skilled.  They did their job. They did it with deliberations. They met the challenge, and  they will continue to do the best they can.   
CUOMO: Couldn't ask for more from the first responders, no question. One of the painful details in the situation is that because of the explosive device up the  street they couldn't process the scene right away even though they knew there  were deceased inside. What's it been like dealing with the families? Just  circumstances require they have to wait, but such agony for them. How are they?   
DAVIS: I had an opportunity to be at the staging center where the families were gathering waiting for those who are victims to join their families. They were  certainly relieved when they found that their family members were safe and  secure. Those that were unfortunate, certainly, the desperation and despair that  they feel, we feel that for them also.   
CUOMO: What do you tell people in that situation, Mr. Mayor?  
DAVIS: I think that they need to rely upon their faith. They need to draw close to their families and recognize what's the priority, and that should be their  families.   
CUOMO: And when you were dealing with those moments where they just had to wait, even though they weren't getting messages from their loved ones and it was a  little bit of the inevitable.     How difficult is space and time for you to negotiate, as someone they  are looking to for answers and looking for consolation in those moments?   
MAYOR CAREY DAVIS, SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA: Certainly, we want to be compassionate during those moments and that's what we try to express. Our  departments came together. We tried to make it comfortable for them. We tried to  provide food and we tried to help them realize that we were there to support  them. We'll continue in that effort.   
CUOMO: And when it comes to the conclusion of this and the investigations find whatever they find, the responsibility then becomes, well, how do you prevent it  from happening again? Do you believe you are a law away from making something  like this less likely?   
DAVIS: You know, those are national issues. Locally, we do the best we can with the resources that we have. And I think it would be better if state/federal  governments often were more aligned in those efforts. We continue to struggle  with some of -- the lack of resources. But we will make every effort we can  locally to give our community a feeling of being safe so that they can continue  living their lives.   
CUOMO: We certainly had the first responders on the job. But I wonder as the mayor of the place, do you believe that a situation like this is about what is  in someone's hands? Or what is in their heart?   
DAVIS: Well, you know, it's not the gun that kills. It's the shooter that kills.  
CUOMO: Right. And, you know, the conclusion leads you to believe well, it winds up being both but it is about what those motivations. You are saying that is  where your focus is.   
DAVIS: Well, certainly. And we will leave that up, as I said earlier to the PD and FBI, sheriff's department. It is an active investigation.   
CUOMO: Is there anything you need right now? We know you're doing the most with the resources you have. We also know that San Bernardino's been through tough  times, been through a bankruptcy. What is needed that people can do to help?  Because you know they want to help.   
DAVIS: I think it's important that the media continues to cooperate and follows any directions and instructions that they receive from law enforcement. I  appreciate the cooperation so far. And media has been very attentive and the  media is making an effort not compromising any investigations going on.   
CUOMO: And you have been relaying information that the investigators say, this is still very active. They don't know for sure if it was only about these two  people who were the actual murderers, -- how many more could be involved. They  are still going down those roads, yes?   
DAVIS: Again, Chris, it is not appropriate for me to comment. Let's leave that up to the chief for him to reveal that information when he feels it is  appropriate.   
CUOMO: I understand. Certainly, a situation exercise caution. Mr. Mayor, good luck to you going forward.   
DAVIS: Thank you.  
CUOMO: Sorry to meet you under these circumstances.   All right. We'll take a quick break here. Having just spoke to the San  Bernardino mayor. Again, we now know for sure that in San Bernardino, this is  the deadliest shooting we've had to deal with since Newtown, Connecticut.  Fourteen people were murdered here, 17 more are injured and in the hospital.    Our chief medical correspondent Sanjay Gupta is at one of the hospitals where  some are still be treated. We're going to get an update from Sanjay right after  this.   
 CUOMO: We are following breaking news in San Bernardino, California. We know that 14 people were murdered, 17 more injured. They were taken to two  different trauma centers. Their situations are still very, very fluid. Just  because they survived the main violence doesn't mean that they are out of the  woods.    CNN's chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta is live one of those medical  centers, Arrowhead Regional Medical in Colton, California. Some of the victims  were there obviously.    Doc, what do we know, especially in light of the types of weapons that were used  in there?   
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: As you might guess, some significant injuries. There are a couple of fairly good- sized trauma centers in  this area, Loma Linda, a big academic center.    We know that still overnight, there were two patients in critical condition  there. And here behind me, six patients still remain in the hospital. They are  being assessed. We are hoping to get some better idea of their conditions a  little later this morning.    I can tell you we heard from the sister of one of the patients who's here behind  me. Her sister called her from the scene after she had been shot. I want you to  listen to this Chris and I'll explain a little more after we hear this.       
STEPHANIE BALDWIN, SISTER OF SAN BERNARDINO SHOOTING VICTIM: And she just said, Steph, I was shot. And she was like, crying. So I knew she was serious. And I  was just like what happened? And she just said she was at a work thing and the  shooters came in and she was shot and she was scared. And she said, I just want  to tell you that I love you.       
GUPTA: A call made right at the time Chris of this shooting. We know the woman's name is Denise. She's 27. Again, she's in the hospital behind me. She threw  herself underneath this desk. She tried to shield herself with chairs she said.  And then she felt it go through her back. That's how she said it.    She was referring to a bullet. She was shot in her lower back. She's expected to  recover OK.    But there are so many stories likes this, Chris. And we're hoping to get a  better idea from the patients exactly what they went through and how they are  going to do over next few days.   
CUOMO: And, you know, that's a really relevant consideration. As I was saying in the intro to you Sanjay, just because they made it through doesn't mean they are  out of the woods. When you are dealing with a 0.223 caliber, you know, that  probably came out of an AR-15, you know, just tell people what kind of damage  that can do and how it creates complications for hours if not days to come.   
GUPTA: Yes, you know, you are absolutely right. I mean, you talk about penetrating injuries. And you can predict to some extent what type of injuries  those are going to cause in the body.    When you have a significant blast component to these injuries as well, it can  become a little more unpredictable. You can have damage or injury to organs to  blood vessels that may be further away from the entry point or exit points. So  that is part of the reason you have got to monitor patients for even longer  periods of time. Even people who were not directly injured by bullets, just the  blasts sometimes from these types of weapons can cause injuries.     So, there are people who have to be monitored that were in the area.  Patients have got to be monitored longer. You've got to look for the types of  these complications.    Again, these patients, several of them are expected to recover well, many of  them in fair condition. That doesn't mean they are going to get out of the  hospital any time soon, Chris.   
CUOMO: Sad but true. Sanjay thank you very much. At least one man reported he was injured, not by the bullet but just by the wall splintering from the force  of the bullet. So, we're going to have Sanjay stay on that and these people's  struggles.    Now, San Bernardino represents the second mass shooting in less than a week.  Even worse, since the Sandy Hook tragedy, we hadn't seen this many people killed  and we haven't seen two shooters since Columbine. We're going to talk to some  personally affected by all this.   
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.  
CUOMO: We're in San Bernardino, California, the deadliest mass shooting since Newtown, Connecticut. Investigators very much on edge after identifying two  attackers and concern there could be more people involved. We do know this: 14  people were murdered, 17 injured.   
