    
HIGHLIGHT: More details on the California shooting. New polls show Donald Trump with a 20-point lead in the GOP race. After yet another mass shooting in San  Bernardino, California, President Obama saying this can't become a new normal  for Americans and for years he's called for stricter gun control measures, but  just yesterday Senate Republicans saying, no, once again to new gun control  legislation.     
 CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: And good morning. I'm Carol Costello. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm live in San Bernardino, California.    A lot of disconnects and unknowns. Those words from a lawyer representing the  family of the San Bernardino shooters. That same attorney questioning key facts  about that day. CNN's Chris Cuomo is here. He talked with those lawyers and what  did they tell you?   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR, "NEW DAY": Well, the interview was surprising to me. They don't represent the shooters, obviously, they're dead, but they don't  represent their interests as well. They say that the family is in shock. They  say the family didn't know. We don't have any reason to disbelieve that from the  investigators at this point. But they go farther. They question whether or not  this is terrorism. They question whether or not this even happened the way we  think it happened. Listen to why.       
CUOMO: Where do you go with this in terms of how they explained how he went from someone they knew and loved to somebody who could do something so monstrous?   
DAVID S. CHESLEY, FAMILY'S ATTORNEY: There's - there's a lot of disconnects and there's a lot of unknowns and there's a lot of things that quite frankly don't  add up or seem implausible. I - I don't - she - she was never involved in  shooting. She's probably about 90 pounds, so it's - it's unlikely she could even  carry a weapon or wear some type of a vest or - or do any of this. Where the  couple was found, from what I understand, is that they were handcuffed, lying  face down in this truck shot up. There - there's a lot of things that just don't  make sense. You know, no one has ever seen Syed with any of the things that they  - I mean, with some of the things they found on the scene, they haven't seen him  with them.   
CUOMO: Like what?  
CHESLEY: The - the pipe bombs, for example. He - he - no one had ever seen him use or have anything like that. And it just doesn't make sense for - for these  two to be able to act like some kind of Bonnie and Clyde or something. It - it's  just ridiculous. It doesn't add up.   
CUOMO: It doesn't add up.  
CHESLEY: They don't have the military skills to carry out something like this, really, frankly.   
CUOMO: Well, authorities go back and forth on whether or not this show's sophistication or lack of sophistication in terms of how it was carried out. But  are you saying that you're not sure that they did this?   
CHESLEY: Um, I'm just - I'm just telling you straight out that it doesn't - it doesn't make sense. It looks like - if - if somebody had military training or  something, yes, but there was none of that. And - and this person was not  aggressive. We sat with the FBI for three hours and they tried to identify some  characteristics or some affiliations that he might have had that could have led  him to act in this way and they couldn't find anything. They were totally  stumped, totally frustrated. You know, in the media some have said that it may  be work related, like a - like he was disgruntled in some way. But really  everyone is clueless because there's nothing that would characterize him to act  in - in this manner.   
CUOMO: But to be clear, does the family have any doubts as to whether or not this was him and his wife who did it? Because the authorities have none, as you  know.   
MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, FAMILY'S ATTORNEY: I think the family has come to terms with the situation as the facts have been coming out and they've been very  accepting of it. They send their apologies and their wishes and their prayers to  everybody who lost their lives and they have let that - they've let that be  known already. So I think the family has been accepting of everything that has  come out through the media, through the police reports and they're very  remorseful and they're very sad. They - they lost two family members of their  own as well.   
CUOMO: I just want to make sure that I'm hearing the same thing from you, counselor -   
CHESLEY: Sure. Sure.  
CUOMO: Because it seems like you're saying it doesn't make sense. She might not have done this.   
CHESLEY: I'm just telling you, as an attorney, I don't speak for the family and their views and they're not - they're not deniers in any way. They're not -  they're not actually affiliated with this in any way. They were really surprised  to hear about these events. They were shocked. When they started to hear about  them, they were worried for the safety of Syed. They thought that he might have  been getting attacked. They were - they were completely shocked when they found  out about it. So they're not denying anything. I'm just telling you from an  attorney's perspective and the cases I've had, it - the facts don't - don't make  sense. That's all I would say.   
CUOMO: That's the part I don't get. I know that you're not here to plead the case for the people who did the killing, I hope.   
CHESLEY: Yes. I'm frustrated - yes, I'm frustrated about it.  
CUOMO: But -  
ABUERSHAID: I think what David is trying to say is that he -  
CUOMO: Right. But you know the officers say they took fire from this SUV. The people in the SUV were him and her. That's kind of the end of the analysis of  possibilities, right?   
ABUERSHAID: Well, Chris, as you know, as an attorney yourself, you do also understand that we have to wait for everything to come in. Not just bits and  parts of the factual basis. Wait for the whole -   
CUOMO: What could come in?  
ABUERSHAID:.  
CUOMO: Give me a possibility. What could come in?  
ABUERSHAID: There's not - I don't know what could come in, but there's more information that we still haven't received yet. You guys haven't received  everything yet. Nobody has.       
COSTELLO: It's just - it just strikes me as kind of strange. Really, they - like especially the younger attorney who said that it might not be them? Is that what  he was saying?   
CUOMO: I think that you have to chalk this up to some lawyering. There is a lot of unknown. The investigators tell us as well, they're telling us to go slow,  ruling out workplace as an incendiary here as well. I know that's frustrating to  people, but that's what investigators say. So a little bit of it is lawyering.  We don't know all the facts.     The investigators believe more may have been involved. They do not  believe fewer may have been involved. The idea of the woman being handcuffed is  simply irrelevant. She was certainly in the car. They were taking fire from the  officers they were giving it to. That's what started it. That's beyond fact.    I think what matters most is, move past the lawyering to the family. They say  they didn't know. The investigators haven't given us any indication to question  that. They're in an impossible situation if what they're saying is true, that  they didn't know, because it's going to be so hard for so many to accept that.   
COSTELLO: So does - do these lawyers represent Farook or his wife or both?  
CUOMO: No. They represent the family of Farook.  
COSTELLO: Gotcha.  
CUOMO: And now people are suspicious of that. Why did they lawyer up? COSTELLO: Right.   
CUOMO: Well, because they need to. Because they're dealing with a federal investigation and you want to make sure that your rights are secured as well. I  do not think that should be seen by anybody as an admission of anything.   
COSTELLO: All right, Chris Cuomo, thanks so much. I appreciate it.   Still to come in the NEWSROOM, Donald Trump tops his Republican rivals yet  again. New polls show a commanding lead. Can anything stop the Trump momentum?   
 COSTELLO: All right, let's talk politics now. Donald Trump's dominance showing no sign of slowing down. A new CNN poll showing Trump firmly  in first place with a 20 point lead over his closest rival. Ted Cruz. Ben  Carson, Marco Rubio and Chris Christie round out the top five. Jeb Bush and  Carly Fiorina aren't doing so well. They're tied for sixth place. And in a  speech to the Republican Jewish Coalition, Trump reiterated his belief that he  will win the presidency, while criticizing lawmakers he says have failed voters.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We know where the Democrats are coming from, but these Republican politicians, they go to Washington and they're going  to do this and they're going to do budgets and then they become mainstream. They  vote on Obamacare. Yes, I vote. They don't want to leave. They lose all of their  courage. I want to use a nice word, because otherwise I get reported for foul  language. They lose - they lose all of their courage and they've let us down.  That won't happen with me.       
COSTELLO: So let's talk about this. Errol Louis is CNN political commentator and political anchor for New York 1, and Cheri Jacobus is a Republican strategist.    Welcome to both of you.   
CHERI JACOBUS, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Thank you.  
COSTELLO: Thanks for being with me.   Errol, earlier this summer we said it's too early, don't read too much into  these polls, but now the Iowa caucuses are less than two months away. Is this a  realistic portrait of the state of the race?   
ERROL LOUIS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, as they always tell us, Carol, it's a snapshot of what it is taking a snapshot of, in this case, a national  sampling mostly of Republican voters. Of course the primary process is a state  by state contest and those numbers look considerably different. But you're  absolutely right I think to point to both the very large lead that Donald Trump  has, as well as some of the reasons, which your clip I think really sort of  perfectly nailed, is this notion that Republican voters feel like they've been  let down. That the Tea Party made lots and lots of promises that have not come  true.    I think where they may bump into a reality problem is - the fact is, it's not  simply a matter of courage, it's really a matter of a system that has a lot of  checks and balances, a lot of different levels of government, a lot of different  court rulings and, of course, there are, in fact, a lot of Democrats there,  including that guy who works out of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. So that there has  to be some negotiation, some give and take. Whether or not a President Trump can  do that, well, that remains to be seen, of course.   
COSTELLO: Well, interestingly enough, Cheri Jacobus, Robert Gates, the former secretary of defense under Presidents Bush and Obama, he wrote an op-ed for "The  Washington Post" and he says, "we need a president who understands there are  three branches of government. Coalition building is important." He ended his  op-ed with this. "Our new leader should appeal to the better angels of our  nature." He was quoting Abraham Lincoln. And you got to believe he was talking  about Donald Trump.   
JACOBUS: Yes, I agree with that. And I agree with just about everything that Errol said as well. Look, the Trump rise is not - he's not Teflon. He's not  magical. He's not hypnotizing people. There are a number of things at play.  First of all, he came into a very large field. I think it's clear the field  needs to narrow. We now have a clear top four and there seems to be a tie for  second, third and fourth place. I think the lower tier people need to stop their  vanity campaigns and drop out.    But Trump came in with upwards of about $50 million worth of free media. That  was an estimate by Nate Silverthis summer. I think it's safe to say by now  it is $100 million. We have many right wing media figures supporting him. And I  think that, you know, many of these people know that a Trump candidacy, a Trump  nomination means a Hillary in the White House and that means selling a lot of  anti- Hillary books. Yes, I said that out loud. I'm sure I'll get flak from  that. But many of these people made their careers and their fortunes with a  Clinton in the White House. They'd like that again.    There has been no concerted sustained effort to go against Trump. If you do this  in Iowa, if you do this in New Hampshire, he disappears. But this has not  happened. I think people are just -- don't quite know what to do about him, but  he is a man who is not really a Republican. He's changed parties five different  times. He's bringing in new people to this effort that will not vote Republican  if he is not the Republican nominee.     So there's a lot of things going on here. The free media, the  wall-to-wall coverage of his rallies that are substance free but nary a mention  of the fact that less than two weeks ago he tweeted racist information from a  neo-Nazi white supremacist site. That tweet is still up today getting retweets  and likes. The fact that he tried to trick 100 black clergy into endorsing him,  thinking they were stupid. They caught on. It didn't work. These are the things  that should be discussed. Many people don't understand this is going on. But  again, if the field narrows, if there is a sustained effort to run against him,  people should not be afraid that his friends in the right-wing media are going  to support him forever. But these numbers will change -       
COSTELLO:pushback. Cheri has gotten on her soapbox this morning. I enjoyed it though, thank you. Look Errol, let's talk about those lower tier  candidates, because according to this poll, the lower tier candidates are Jeb  Bush and John Kasich, two candidates who are pushing back against Donald Trump.   
LOUIS: Well, that's right. Look. There are a lot of people - I'd throw Chris Christie in there as well. There are -- there is absolutely no reason. Cheri is  right. If there is going to be an anti-Trump candidate who emerges as somebody  who is going to really take him on and says let's make this a race between what  Trump represents and what I represent, there are any number of people who can  plausibly lay claim to that title. And we won't know, I mean, until - I'd say  New Hampshire at the earliest, who that person might be. So, you know,  mid-February I think we'll have a sense of that.   
COSTELLO: All right. Errol Louis, Cheri Jacobus, thanks so much for being with me this morning.   
JACOBUS: Thank you.  
LOUIS: Thank you.  
COSTELLO: Still to come in the NEWSROOM - you're welcome. Still to come in the NEWSROOM, the Senate might have just shot it down, but one man is not giving up  his fight to enforce stricter gun control. After a break, Alison Parker's father  joins me with the latest on his mission to evoke change in Washington.   
 COSTELLO: The arsenal the killers in San Bernardino had is mind-blowing. On them, two assault rifles, two handguns, 1600-plus rounds of  ammunition and then there was what was found inside their home: 4600 more  rounds, 12 bombs, hundreds of bomb-making tools. President Obama saying this  can't become a new normal for Americans. For years he's called for stricter gun  control measures. Just yesterday Senate Republicans saying, no, once again to  new gun control legislation.    Someone all too familiar with this is Andy Parker. His daughter Alison,  alongside her cameraman Adam Ward, were killed on live television back in  August. Immediately after Alison's death, Mr. Parker vowed to do whatever it  took to end gun violence. That mission leading straight to the steps of the  Capitol.    Andy Parker joins me now live from Washington. Good morning, sir. ANDY PARKER, 
ALISON PARKER'S FATHER: Good morning, Carol. I wish we were seeing each, again, under happier circumstances. But perhaps one day we will.   
COSTELLO: I hope so. You've been on a mission ever since your daughter's death. Has there been any progress, in your mind?   
PARKER: Carol, I think we have moved the needle. I think if you look at the presidential debates, the Democratic presidential debates for the first time  ever, it's in the conversation. Gun-sense legislation is -- and commonsense gun  legislation is in the conversation, and that's never happened before. I think  with each one of these tragic events, it has an exponential effect and I think  it's affecting more and more people and groups that I'm working with, like Every  Town for Gun Safety and Moms Demand Action, the numbers are swelling from a  grassroots standpoint. So, yes, I think we are seeing progress and I think the  tide is turning.   
COSTELLO: I think for the tide to really turn, though, you have to establish some sort of a relationship with gun rights advocates. Have you been able to do  that?   
PARKER: Actually, we have. We -- we met -- there were a group of commonsense and responsible gun owners that we met with a couple of weeks ago in Washington at  the Every Town headquarters. These guys own guns. They also said, you know,  we've had enough of this. This is craziness. And I think most of the NRA  membership -- I don't think, I know that most of the NRA membership and the  majority of responsible gun owners want to close gun show loopholes and they  want universal background checks. That's the low-hanging fruit. We know there's  a mental illness problem in this country. We're not the only country that has  mental illness, but we have the market cornered on these people, dangerous  people being able to have access to weapons. And what the Senate did yesterday  is appalling to me.   
COSTELLO: "The New York Daily News" had a headline the day after this terrible shooting in San Bernardino. And it said -- in essence it said, you know, prayer  isn't enough. God won't make this stop happening. A lot of -- a lot of gun  rights advocates took offense to that. What do you think?   
PARKER: Well, I think that's -- unfortunately, it's become a code word for sanctimonious politicians. It's -- our thoughts and prayers are with you, and  they feel like that that's enough to get by. That's the code word for, we're not  going to do anything. You know, thoughts and prayers are certainly appreciated,  but we want to see action.     And when you have guys like Bob Goodlatte, who was the Congressman  where Alison lived, that has 100 gun legislative bills sitting at his desk that  he will not consider for a hearing, when you have Mike McCaul who is supposed to  be looking after us as the chairman of the House Committee to -- the Homeland  House -- the Homeland Security Committee, and you look at what they do and  they're obstructionists, you know, I've called them cowards before. I now go so  far as to say they're acting in a treasonist fashion, frankly.   
COSTELLO: Treasonist fashion?  
PARKER: Yes. When you have murder going on the way we have it and when you have the ability to affect gun legislation, sensible gun legislation, at least  hearing it, you know, holding hearings, and when the gun lobby is- you know, is  giving these guys money to preempt that, yes, I think you're aiding and abetting  terrorists, which in my mind is treasonist.   
COSTELLO: Andy Parker, thanks for joining me this morning.   The next hour of CNN NEWSROOM after a break.   
