    
HIGHLIGHT: Suspected terrorist Salah Abdeslam's last known whereabouts were in Belgium. President Barack Obama attended global climate summit as he navigated  tensions at home and abroad. Pastors who met with Donald Trump said meeting was  not an endorsement. Trump adviser said Donald Trump did not make fun of  reporter's disability. Robert Dear faced charges for shooting at a Planned  Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs. Jason Van Dyke charged with murder over  the shooting death of teenager Laquan McDonald. The U.S. Embassy in the Afghan  capital of Kabul is reporting what it calls "credible reports of an attack in  the city". French authorities believe the key suspect in the Paris terror  attacks, Salah Abdeslam, may have fled to Syria. Leaders of 150 countries are  meeting in Paris for the COP21 Climate Summit. While speaking to reporters  during his African tour, Pope Francis bluntly called on leaders to take action  on climate change. Burkina Faso has elected a new leader. Roch Marc Kabore won  with more than 53-percent of the vote in what experts say was the country's  freest election in decades. The Russians have now activated this massive air  defense missile system in Western Syria, the S-400. An annual calendar, the  Pirelli Calendar, traditionally highlighting female supermodel and featuring  nudity is going a different route this year.     
 LEMON: Always a good program.   That's it for us tonight. Thanks for watching. See you back here tomorrow night.  Our live coverage continues now with Isha Sesay in Los Angeles.   
ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: This is CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles.    Ahead this hour, in what's being called a rejection of terror, world leaders  move forward with a critical climate summit in Paris just weeks after the city  was rocked by terrorist attacks.    Plus, the man accused of gunning down three people at a U.S. women's clinic  makes his first appearance in court dressed in a padded vest.    And Donald Trump puts a positive spin on his meeting with African- American  church leaders.    Hello, and welcome to our viewers in the United States and around the world. I'm  Isha Sesay. Newsroom L.A. starts right now.    Just over two weeks after terror attacks shocked the world, 150 world leaders  have gathered in Paris for a summit to tackle climate change. Their goal is to  drop the treaty to dramatically reduce greenhouse emissions around the world. As  France's president put it, never have the stakes been so high since this is  about the future of the planet.    But the attacks that killed 130 people were also on everyone's mind. After a  moment of silence, U.S. President Barack Obama linked the battle against  terrorism to the urgent need to fight climate change.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We salute the people of Paris for insisting this crucial conference go on. An act of defiance that proves nothing  will deter us from building the future we want for our children. What greater  rejection than those who would tear down our world and marshalling our best  efforts to save it.       
SESAY: Our Frederik Pleitgen is in Paris and joins us know beginning with the terror investigation.    Fred, good to have you with us. Salah Abdeslam, the suspected eighth Paris  attacker, remains on the run. But authorities now revealing new details about  his alleged role on November 13th and his movements.   
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Absolutely, Isha. We're in Paris of course this morning as the COP21 is getting ready for  day two. And it was interesting just to hear President Obama talking about the  importance of combating climate change as well as the importance of combating  terrorism as two of the great challenges of our time.    And of course one of the big challenges that currently faces investigators here  is trying to find Salah Abdeslam, he's of course the main suspect in those  November 13th Paris attacks who is still on the run. And there's two sources who  tell CNN, one of them a senior counterterrorism source, that the French  authorities apparently working from the theory that Salah Abdeslam might already  have made it all the way back to Syria.    Now that, of course, is something that would be very difficult to do considering  that shortly after the attacks took place a global manhunt on Salah Abdeslam was  launched in Belgium, in -- in France. But of course in other European countries,  as well. So very difficult to see how he would have made it all the way to  Syria.    Now having said that, of course, the manhunt is underway in Belgium and the  authorities there say they don't know where he is. However, the Belgians also  saying they have no indication that at this point he could already have gone to  Syria. At the same time, it's also becoming clear, or clearer, that he did  apparently have a very broad role in the logistics of the Paris attacks.    Of course we'd already heard that he rented several of the vehicles that were  used in the attacks and now a source tells CNN that apparently he also purchased  detonators for explosives in a store north of Paris and Jim Sciutto has the  latest on the investigation.       
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: The street behind the Bataclan concert hall, site of some of the worst bloodshed and most  desperate escapes of the Paris attacks, is now open again with bullet holes  marking the walls. Still, one of the chief architects of the carnage, alleged  eighth attacker Salah Abdeslam, remains on the loose. French investigators now  looking into the possibility he escaped to Syria, sources tell CNN.   
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON, U.S. AIR FORCE: If he made it over land from France to Turkey, it would have been very easy for him to get into Syria. Same -- he  could have also done that via Greece going by boat from a Greek island to Syria.  All of that is possible. And there's very little control over those borders. 
SCIUTTO: Still, it would be an alarming escape by Europe's most wanted man.    His last known whereabouts were in Belgium, where security officials  have carried out dozens of raids in search of him and other suspected plotters.  The chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee says authorities are  getting closer.   
REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL, TEXAS: I do think they're closing in on him, and that's the good news. There are many involved in this plot. It was a very sophisticated  plot, an external operation that we have seen from ISIS.   
SCIUTTO: Investigators are now piecing together the terrorist's movements before the November 13th attacks. French police say Abdeslam bought 10 detonators and  batteries from a fireworks shop on Paris' northern outskirts. The store manager  alerting authorities after police publicized his arrest warrant.   
LEIGHTON: Basically, what we're dealing with is a trail that's gone cold. And they're looking for any kind of clue, people that he met, anybody who has  possibly seen the suspect. That is going to be the key to finding him.   
SCIUTTO: Now new information that the terrorists were planning even more bloodshed. The Paris attackers, sources tell CNN, had other targets, quote,  "ready to go," including transportation networks, schools and Jewish targets. An  echo of the January attack on a kosher market following the deadly shooting at  the offices of "Charlie Hebdo."    Jim Sciutto, CNN, Washington.       
PLEITGEN: And Isha, of course, one of those targets that the Saint- Denis cell around Abdelhamid Abaaoud apparently once hit was La Defense, the commercial  district here in Paris, and there are now reports on French media as well as  Reuters saying that apparently that he wanted his cousin who was also with him  in that Saint-Denis apartment to buy him two suits -- as well as a very fancy  shoes so he could blend in along with an accomplice to the people there to then  conduct those attacks after the infiltration.    So there's more facts that are coming to light about the investigation from here  in Paris as this COP21 continues -- Isha.   
SESAY: Yes. Very frightening indeed, these details that are coming out about these purported attacks that would have been carried out in the days after  November 13th.    And, Fred, turning our attention to the climate talks and President Obama's  attendance, he is there in Paris as is Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin. The  threat of ISIS is very much on his mind and of course folks back home here in  the United States as well. It is a very full plate for the U.S. president. 
PLEITGEN: Yes, it certainly is. And of course one of the things that we have to understand about a meeting like COP21 is that of course the centerpiece of it is  to fight climate change. And of course this COP21 in particular is one that is  very ambitious, where the president says he wants a result. He wants binding  agreements. He wants the world basically to commit to this goal of not allowing  the environment to heat up more than two degrees Celsius over this period of  time. So that is certainly something that will require a lot of diplomacy.    But at the same time, of course, the fight against ISIS is also centerpiece and  very important to a lot of these world leaders including him and of course also  Vladimir Putin. And there is some disagreement between the West and Russia on  how best to conduct that fight, especially after the incident over the airspace  between Turkey and Syria and the shooting down of that Russian plane that is  calling for the president to be even more diplomatic.    Let's have a look at Jim Acosta's report.       
JIM ACOSTA, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: As Moscow continues its airstrikes inside Syria, complicating the U.S. fight against ISIS,  today, President Obama and Russia's Vladimir Putin appear to be looking right  past each other in this Kremlin photo snapped at this week's global climate  summit in Paris.    The two leaders are still at odds over any kind of alliance to defeat ISIS. Mr.  Obama expressed his regret to Putin after Turkey shot down a Russian warplane  last week, but Putin is still furious, refusing to meet with Turkey's president  at the climate talks.   
BEN RHODES, U.S. DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: And the president again reiterated his strong belief that we need to work together.   
ACOSTA: The war on ISIS is looming large over this climate summit. As soon as he landed in France, the president laid a single white rose outside the Bataclan  theater to remember the victims of the Paris attacks.    And police clashed with protesters angry over a new ban on large demonstrations,  part of the intense security measures in the French capital.   
OBAMA: We have come to Paris to show our resolve.  
ACOSTA: But in Paris the president made the case that bringing the world together to battle climate change is yet another way to take the fight to ISIS.   
OBAMA: What greater rejection of those who would tear down our world than marshaling our best efforts to save it?   
ACOSTA: Republicans pounced on the president's focus on global warming, insisting he should be busy destroying ISIS. GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE, 
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's insulting to the position that he holds. It's insulting even more to the responsibilities that are his, for him to be talking  about this stuff right now.   
ACOSTA: After the president's initial response to the Paris attacks were slammed by critics, the White House is trying to get back on offense, announcing it's  tightening the visa waiver program that eases travel into the U.S., appointing a  new senior adviser to the president on the counter-ISIS campaign, and planning  more talks with U.S. governors about incoming Syrian refugees.     And the White House contends it's Republicans who are wrong about the  climate summit.   
RHODES: If the entire world had planned to come to Paris, and you had leaders from over 190 countries who would plan to come here to Paris, and we had called  that off, that would be demonstrating that ISIL can disrupt the activities of  the entire world.   
ACOSTA: In the hopes of deescalating tensions with Russia, President Obama will meet with Turkey's President Erdogan on Tuesday just as the president is urging  nearly every country in the world to sign an agreement limiting carbon  emissions.    The climate around the war on ISIS is getting tougher but White House officials  maintain Mr. Obama is more than capable of tackling more than one challenge at a  time.    Jim Acosta, CNN, traveling with the president in Paris.       
PLEITGEN: And he certainly has more than one challenge on his plate at this point in time as he tries to ease the tensions between Russia and Turkey at the  same time. As we've just seen there, taking heat at home for even going to this  summit here. And at the same time then of course his main focal point at this  point in time as he tries to lead, as the president himself said on trying to  get an agreement to curb climate change going right here in Paris at this very  important conference -- Isha.   
SESAY: Yes. Indeed. Fred Pleitgen, joining us there with the very latest. Always appreciate it, Fred, thank you.    U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump met with more than 100 black pastors on  Monday. Although there was some controversy and confusion surrounding the  meeting, Trump, not surprisingly, called it a big success.    Our Sara Murray has details on the closed door meeting.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And I saw love in the room. I see love everywhere I go 
. SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Despitewalking back what his campaign had originally promoted as an endorsement event with 100 black pastors, Donald Trump emerged calling today's closed door meeting  a success.   
TRUMP: We actually didn't think we're going to be having a press conference, but we all thought it was such a good meeting we would do that and we have many,  many endorsements that came out of the meeting.   
MURRAY: In a lead-up to today's get-together, several of the pastors invited said they had no intention of backing the GOP frontrunner or even attending the  meet-and-greet.   
BISHOP PAUL MORTON, CHANGING A GENERATION: If you talk down to women, if you talk down to documented immigrants calling them rapists, and then Black Lives,  get them out of here, no, you can't represent me. So I don't even need to hear  your platform.   
MURRAY: Victor Couzens said he came to talk with Trump, nothing more.  
BISHOP VICTOR COUZENS, VSC MINISTRIES: It's really incumbent upon me to take advantage of the opportunity to query him about exactly the types of things we  should expect from a potential Trump administration. I'm not here to endorse Mr.  Trump. I am here to have a dialogue.   
MURRAY: The pastors cautioned an outright criticism comes as Trump faces scrutiny for re-tweeting a racially charged message.   
TRUMP: I'm going to protect them.  
MURRAY: And suggesting a Black Lives Matter protester deserved to be roughed up at a Trump campaign rally.    Others attending today's meeting said they would attempt to convince their  colleagues to support Trump.   
PASTOR STEPHEN PARSON, RICHMOND CHRISTIAN CENTER: Anybody that knows Donald Trump personally knows that he's not a racist, he's provided more jobs for  minorities, for Mexicans, for African-Americans. He's exactly what not only the  African-American community needs but what America needs.   
MURRAY: Today Trump seemed undeterred by the change in plans.  
TRUMP: The beautiful thing about the meeting is they really didn't ask me to change the tone. I think they want to see victory because, ultimately, it is  about, we want to win and we want to win together.   
MURRAY: Meanwhile, Trump continues to face scrutiny for repeatedly insisting he saw large crowds of Muslim Americans celebrating in New Jersey on 9/11.   
TRUMP: I had hundreds and hundreds of calls and tweets of people that saw it and plenty of people saw it 
. MURRAY: Now Trump may not have picked upthe 100 endorsements he was hoping for but he still picked up a couple before he came down here to Georgia where he got the crowd roaring with his attacks on  Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders and most of his GOP rivals.    Sara Murray, CNN, Macon, Georgia.       
SESAY: Well, the Trump campaign is dealing with a number of controversies at the moment. One of them has to do with a series of gestures Trump made at a recent  rally which many say were a direct mockery of a disabled reporter.    CNN's Jake Tapper spoke with Trump adviser Michael Cohen about the incident.       
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR, "THE LEAD": Trump cited this report from 2001 in "The Washington Post" from Serge Kovaleski. Kovaleski is a reporter. He suffers from  a condition that limits movement in his arms.    Now this is Trump at a rally talking about this reporter.       
TRUMP: The thing about northern New Jersey draws the prober's eye, written by a nice reporter.     Now the poor guy, you got to see this guy. Ah, I don't remember what  I said. Ah, I don't remember. He's going, like, I don't remember. Maybe that's  what I said.       
TAPPER: All right. Let's put up, this is still photo of Donald Trump from that event and a picture of Mr. Kovaleski. Now Mr. Trump insists he was not making  fun of Kovaleski's disability and he doesn't remember even meeting Kovaleski who  covered him in the past. But at that event --   
MICHAEL COHEN, SPECIAL COUNSEL TO DONALD TRUMP: Do you know -- Jake, how many people do you think have covered Donald Trump in the past? Thousands upon  thousands.   
TAPPER: How many people with that disability? I would guess one.  
COHEN: Do you really think that Mr. Trump remembers this specific reporter?  
TAPPER: He said --  
COHEN: Mr. Trump himself said he does not remember.  
TAPPER: You said he has a fantastic memory and --  
COHEN: He most certainly does. He sees thousands and thousands of reporters a year.   
TAPPER: But he said --  
COHEN: He does not remember this guy. Now let me say one more thing here.  
TAPPER: Michael, he said --      
COHEN: Mr. Trump --  
TAPPER: This was written by a nice reporter. He said it was written by a nice reporter, you got to see this guy.   
COHEN: He was talking -- he was talking about the article until he ended up pulling it back which he did for whatever reason that he did. But let me say --   
TAPPER: He said, you got to see this guy, and then he mimics his injury.  
COHEN: Mr. Trump donates millions and millions of dollars each and every year in order to combat disabilities, in order to combat cancer, whether it's children,  where he donates millions of dollar a year. Mr. Trump is not the type of  individual that's going to make fun of somebody's disability. He wouldn't know  this guy prior to this entire nonsense.   
TAPPER: But we just saw him do it.  
COHEN: He does not --  
TAPPER: We just saw him made fun of his disability.  
COHEN: He was not making fun. He was being gesticulate, which Donald Trump is. And he was basically showing the exasperation of a reporter that's pulling back  on a story, exasperation and basically saying something like, oh, now, I don't  remember, now, I don't remember. Had nothing to do with his disability.   
TAPPER: And it just so happen -- first of all, he said he was a nice guy, and then he said, you got to see this guy, and then he twists his arms to mimic his  disability.   
COHEN: He wasn't twisting his arms to mimic anything.      
SESAY: The controversy will continue to follow for you.   Well, the man suspected of shooting up a women's health clinic in Colorado has  his first day in court. Details on the evidence investigators are looking at.    And a Chicago officer charged with murder more than a year after a fatal  shooting leaves jail. The details on the delay in this case are just ahead. Stay  with us.       
 SESAY: Hello, everyone. The man accused of opening fire at a women's health clinic in Colorado is expected to face first- degree murder charges. He  made his first court appearance Monday.    CNN's Dan Simon has the details.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The first right which you have, Mr. Dear, is the right to remain silent.   
DAN SIMON, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Wearing a protective vest and handcuffs, 57-year-old Robert Dear appeared by video in a Colorado Springs  courtroom today.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have any questions about any of these rights, sir?  
ROBERT LEWIS DEAR, SUSPECT: No questions.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK.  
SIMON: Dear looked like he was struggling to stay awake, slowly blinking his eyes as the judge advised him of his rights.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shots. I'm under fire. I'm shot. I'm hit.  
SIMON: Friday's mass shooting and six-hour standoff left three people dead. Forty-four-year-old Police Officer Garrett Swasey, 29-year-old Iraq war veteran  Ke'Arre Stewart, and Jennifer Markovsky, a 35-year- old mother of two. Nine  others were wounded. Survivors hid in offices as gunshots rang throughout the  building.   
KENTANYA CRAION, SHOOTING WITNESS: We actually had a gun bullet go through a wall, it came through one, and went through the other, and you could see the  gunpowder and smell it. And it was just frightening at that point.   
SIMON: Dear's appearance comes as investigators try to determine a motive behind the Planned Parenthood attack. A law enforcement source tells CNN Dear mentioned  something about, quote, "baby parts," and expressed anti-abortion views.    The comments come just months after a series of videos produced by anti-abortion  activists accused Planned Parenthood of engaging in illegal fetal tissue sales  for research. The organization has vehemently denied that, saying the videos  were heavily edited. The issue has become a topic of debate on the campaign  trail.   
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There is no excuse, Planned Parenthood must be defunded.   
SIMON: GOP candidate Carly Fiorina who's been one of the most outspoken critics of Planned Parenthood said it's irresponsible to link anti-abortion rhetoric to  Friday's attack.   
FIORINA: This is so typical of the left to immediately begin demonizing a messenger because they don't agree with the message.   
SIMON: And former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who's known for his social conservatism, said the attacks should not be linked to the anti-abortion  movement.   
MIKE HUCKABEE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What he did is absolutely abominable, especially to those of us in the pro-life movement, because there's nothing  about any of us that would condone or in any way look the other way at something  like this.   
SIMON: A law enforcement source tells CNN that investigators are still going over the evidence, evidence that includes a multitude of weapons,  handguns and rifles that the suspect allegedly brought to the scene in a duffel  bag. At this point authorities are still trying to figure out why that Planned  Parenthood was targeted.    Dan Simon, CNN, Colorado Springs, Colorado.       
SESAY: Chicago's mayor is expected to announce a police accountability task force Tuesday. This follows the release of dash cam video of an officer fatally  shooting a teenager. That officer had been charged with murder and just posted  bail.    CNN's Kyung Lah has the details of a delay in this case.       
KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The night of October 28th, 2014, Chicago Police respond to calls of an erratic man with a knife. Six seconds  after exiting a police car, Officer Jason Van Dyke fires, striking Laquan  McDonald 16 times.    But this is not the story officers tell that night. The police union spokesman  gives the first police account. Seventeen-year-old McDonald was shot once in the  chest after lunging at police.   
PAT CAMDEN, CHICAGO POLICE UNION SPOKESMAN: Going at one of the officers, at that point, the officer defends himself.   
 LAH: An autopsy the following day shows of the 16 shots, nine entered McDonald's back. Officer Van Dyke, the only cop who fired, goes on paid desk  duty. Van Dyke has 20 complaints against him, 10 of them use of force  complaints. But all this goes unreported as the public accepts the Chicago  Police explanation and the dash cam video is sealed. All this, as Mayor Rahm  Emanuel is in the middle of the most contentious Chicago mayoral race since the  1980s.    He wins. Eight days later, he's there as the city council voters without any  debate to award Laquan McDonald's family $5 million. The city pays the McDonald  family, even before the investigation is complete and even though the family had  not filed a wrongful death lawsuit.    Chicago Alderman Howard Brookings voted for the settlement and now says the  council was misled.   
ALD. HOWARD B. BROOKINGS JR. CHICAGO CITY COUNCIL: I think that there was a cover-up and I think that people were looking out for their own skin.   
LAH: Mayor Emanuel and the prosecutor, Cook County State Attorney Anita Alvarez battle for months to keep the dash cam under wraps. They lose when a judge  orders the release of the video.    Just hours before the video release, the prosecutor charges Officer Van Dyke  with first-degree murder, a full 13 months after the shooting. The prosecutor  says she had intended to charge the cop for months but moved up her decision  because of the timing of the video release.   
ANITA ALVAREZ, COOK COUNTY STATE'S ATTORNEY: I felt compelled, in the interest of public safety, to announce these state charges today.   
BROOKINGS: How ludicrous is that? Clear she was trying to jump beside, get ahead of the release. It does make me angry that people who are charged with the  public trust in protecting the people and dishing out equal justice under the  law are playing petty politics with an issue that is so serious.   
LAH: Kyung Lah, CNN, Los Angeles.      
SESAY: Time for a quick break. Pope Francis has a harsh warning for world leaders gathering in Paris to talk about climate change. It's now or never.    Plus, Italian tire company Pirelli unveils their 2016 calendar and the featured  women are being showcased in a new kind of light.       
SESAY: You are watching CNN NEWSROOM, live from Los Angeles; I'm Isha Sesay. The headlines this hour: the U.S. Embassy in the Afghan capital of Kabul is  reporting what it calls "credible reports of an attack in the city". The Embassy  didn't release many details, only it was for a possible attack in the next 48  hours.    Sources say French authorities believe a key suspect in the Paris terror attacks  may have fled to Syria. Salah Abdeslam is still at large. Another source says  more attacks were ready to go for Jewish areas, transport networks and schools.    Meanwhile, leaders of 150 countries are meeting in Paris for the COP21 Climate  Summit. Their goal; to agree on a legally binding reduction on greenhouse gas  emissions. On Monday, the Presidents of the U.S. and China met one on one; their  countries are the largest greenhouse producers.    Pope Francis is also weighing in on the climate Summit. Speaking to reporters of  his African tour, he bluntly called on leaders to take action.       
POPE FRANCIS: It's now or never. The first meeting was in Tokyo, but little has been done; and every year the problems are becoming more  serious. At a university meeting where it was discussed what world we want to  leave our children, one said, well, are you sure that children will exist? We  are on the brink. We are on the brink of suicide, to use a strong word.       
SESAY: Well, a stern warning there from the Pope. For more on where we're heading with the environment, I am joined by Jay Famiglietti; he's a scientist  at the NASA Jet Propulsion Lab and an expert on water sustainability. Jay, great  to have you back on the show.   
JAY FAMIGLIETTI, HYDROLOGIST, NASA JET PROPULSION LAB: Thank you very much.  
SESAY: So the U.S. President has said this conference in Paris could be a turning point in efforts to limit global warming. The Chinese President has said  these talks are a starting point. Give me your thoughts on the deal that is  taking shape in Paris right now.   
FAMIGLIETTI: Well, I agree that it is a turning point. It's pretty much now or never. It's our chance to save the planet. So we have to come up with some sort  of agreement to limit emissions, to keep warming, future warming, under control.   
SESAY: Okay, what we keep hearing from climatologists, from scientists is that it's at the critical threshold of two degrees Celsius.   
FAMIGLIETTI: Right.  
SESAY: You want to keep the warming below that. So then there are those who say that is out of reach. For all those talk around Paris and this gathering, of  getting to that point, we can't actually get to that. It is too late. 
FAMIGLIETTI: Right and I agree. I think it is too late, but that doesn't mean we can't shoot for a target like that, be ambitious. The Climate Action Plans that  were submitted by the participating countries suggest that we can limit global  warming to 2.7 to 3.5 degree range. So the difference between two degrees and  2.7, in terms of impact, will probably translate to, of course, more melting,  greater rates of sea level rise, more severe storms, more prolonged droughts. We  have issues to deal with. It's time for us to come to an agreement and get to  work on it.   
SESAY: For our viewers who maybe just have questions, have questions about the dire alarm that's being sounded around this two degrees Celsius, how did  climatologist arrive at that threshold?   
FAMIGLIETTI: Mostly from analysis of climate models and projections of future climate scenarios in which we explore different rates of CO2 emissions in to the  atmosphere. So we are talking about hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of  analyses and simulations. So this is the picture that emerges. So it is not just  a number that was picked out of the air. It's sort of a threshold beyond which  things start to go rather haywire. So it is important; we probably can't get to  two degrees but it is important to keep that temperature growth as low as we  possibly can.   
SESAY: The challenge now, of course, as you well know, is whatever       deal is struck in Paris, how do you monitor it? How do you report? How do you  verify?   
FAMIGLIETTI: Yes, right. It is extremely difficult, and that may be one of the most important things that comes out of the meeting, is agreements that we are  bound to, in terms of monitoring and reporting our progress.   
SESAY: Jay Famiglietti, always great to get your insight and perspective. Thank you for breaking it down.   
FAMIGLIETTI: Thank you so much.  
SESAY: Thank you.  
FAMIGLIETTI: Thank you.  
SESAY: Now, our planet is not only warming equally -- it is not warming equally, better yet, everywhere in the world. China, for example, is seeing its  temperatures rise much faster than the global average. Meteorologist, Pedram  Javaheri joins us with more on how this could shape the face of the country over  the next decade or two. Pedram is breaking it down for us; what are we seeing?   
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Yes, Isha; this is a new report that came out today, ahead of the COP21 there, where about 900 Chinese scientists, --  about a 900-page report, I should say, with 500 scientists, I went over the data  across the planet and we know, of course, the two-degree temperature difference  you get this temperature on a planetary average, and you're talking about  irreversible damage when it comes to coastlines around the world.    Our planet, since the beginning of the 1900's has warmed somewhere on the order  of 1.5 degrees Celsius, that's the average. In China, that number has been as  about 1.5 degrees Celsius. The forecast, unfortunately, if nothing is done,  would take Earth's global average temperature there, about two degrees Celsius  in the coming decades. China would go up to three degrees Celsius. So we know  sea level would be the first thing we'd watch carefully. In fact, you go in,  since 1992 we already know sea levels have risen about ten millimeters per year  off the coast of the Philippines, certainly across portions of Guinea and down  to the south, around Australia. That's where the highest levels are observed on  our planet.    But what does it all mean when it comes to temperature rises getting up to  three, maybe even four degrees Celsius? We know the report actually breaks it  down as such. It says that, basically, if your temperatures go up, you have a  one centimeter rise in sea level. If this happens, the disport ion across, say,  the coastal communities, we don't have the water just in one centimeter. Now,  we're talking about the water coming in ten meters for that one centimeter rise.  You bring up the water even more in parts of China. Shanghai, in particular, the  forecast the next 30 years for the forecast to come up, potentially, 14  centimeters higher than they are as of right now. If that happens, now we are  talking about 140 meters of coastline absolutely submerged. If this occurs, of  course, now you are talking about areas completely underwater. We're talking  about one of the most densely populated cities on our planet, as is the case.  And, of course, we have graphics to show you how this breaks down across this  region of Shanghai with the four degrees Celsius temperature increase. Again,  notice just the communities submerged under water over this region, even the  streets now taking on a significant amount of water as this occurs over the  coming couple of decades, if the forecast remains as it is right now.    Of course we know what is happening in recent days across China, we have the  major pollution in places we'll tell you about. The worst smog of the year lined  up in place across portions of China. Some of the scenes out there as the yellow  alerts have been issued, and guess what; beyond index numbers coming in. Over  564 which is 10 to 20 times above what is considered air that is fit to breathe  is what is occurring right now in Beijing. Incredible to see the rise because,  typically, as you go to bed, industry shuts down, the pollutants drop into the  atmosphere and then you have the numbers moderate a little bit. The conditions  are so stagnant, so poor in China right now, Isha that we have the pollutants  locked in the "Beyond Indexed" category, and they're not dropping very much,  even when people go to bed. This is why some 2,000 companies now have been  forced to shut down operations. Every single construction firm now, in Beijing  and China in particular, in this area has been shut down as well for the time  being because the pollutants; and it's not just blocked in across Beijing.    Look at this map right here. This shows you the maroon colors, which are  indicative of the 500 to 600 air quality index. That is an area the size of the  state of California and the state Tennessee in the United States combined.  530,000 square kilometers of land that are now completely socked in, in an  incredible amount of smog. That is what is happening right now across that area  of China, Isha.   
SESAY: Yes, it is hard to take in, and obviously, we have to think of those with any kind of breathing problems who will be suffering greatly at a time like  this, with such poor air quality. It really is quite terrible. Pedram Javaheri,  joining us there, from CNN Center; thank you, Pedram.   
JAVAHERI: Thanks, Isha.  
SESAY: Now, Russia is deploying some massive military technology in Syria. See why U.S. officials are so concerned with the possible implications, next.       
SESAY: Hello, everyone. Burkina Faso has elected a new leader. Roch Marc Kabore won with more than 53-percent of the vote in what experts say was the country's  freest election in decades. The country's last leader, Blaise Compaore, ruled  for 27 years, winning a series of elections that were criticized as unfair. He  was toppled by a popular uprising in 2014 and forced in to exile. Military  officials loyal to Compaore even attempted to derail this latest election just  two months ago, but a citizen uprising, again, put things back on track.    Now Russia is making a military move in Syria that has U.S. officials wondering  how to react. CNN's Barbara Starr reports.       
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: A "major escalation", that's what one U.S. military official calls Russia's latest battlefield move. The Russians have  now activated this massive air defense missile system in Western Syria, the  S-400.    VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA, via translator: We need to have security  for our air force, and that is why we have activated the S- 400 system.   
STARR: Leaving the U.S. trying to figure out what to do next.  
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: The S-400 is one of the most capable air defense systems in the world. It's got significant capabilities that will  enhance Russia's ability to not only defend its air assets but also it will  serve Russia's interest by protecting Syrian air space, or at least the air  space that Bashar al-Assad controls.   
STARR: From its location at Latakia Air Base, in western Syria, the missile has the capability to track and shoot at planes all the way to Incirlik air base in  Turkey, U.S. officials say. But, for now, the U.S. is counting on the fact that  Russia has no intention of attacking U.S. warplanes. The Pentagon believes from  Latakia Air Base, in fact, the Russian radars would have a hard time reaching  over a mountain range just to the East and locking on to U.S. aircraft. Still,  U.S. warplanes could be at the risk of an accidental shoot down as they fly over  Turkey.   
LEIGHTON: We are going to have to alter their tactics, their approach routes and, at the very least, coordinate with the Russians to make sure that they  don't get shot down by the S-400 or any other anti- aircraft system the Russians  are deploying at this point.       
STARR: And since the shoot-down of the Russian aircraft by Turkey, it appears the Turks are steering well clear of Russian aircraft, U.S. officials say. The  State Department publicly backing up Turkey's assertion the Russians were in its  air space, but still holding the door open to reconciliation with the Russians  if Moscow agrees to fight ISIS.   
ELIZABETH TRUDEAU, SPOKESWOMAN, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT: Our view has been clear on where we'd like to see Russia, in terms of this broader scope, and it is  worth stepping up a step. You know, if our objectives are the same, and if  Russia is committed to the counter- ISIL fight then that's a conversation we  will have.   
STARR: And that conversation may be happening. General Joe Dunford, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Of Staff has just concluded his first phone conversation  with his Russian counterpart; the Pentagon describing that call as courteous.    Barbara Starr, CNN, the Pentagon.       
SESAY: An annual calendar traditionally highlighting female supermodel and featuring nudity is going a different route this year. We will look at the  thirteen women featured in the 2016 Pirelli Calendar.           
SESAY: A new kind of Pirelli calendar has been unveiled. The 2016 issue features 13 accomplished women, including Yoko Ono and Patty Smith, shot by famed  photographer, Annie Leibowitz. The themed calendar has helped put the Italian  tire company on the pop-culture map. Previous years have featured nudity. This  year's subjects are fully clothed with the exception of comedic actress, Amy  Schumer and tennis champion, Serena Williams.    Jennifer Siebel Newsome joins us now; Jennifer, great to have you on the show.  Pirelli is turning the page, presenting a dramatic shift in their choice of  women and how they are portrayed in their 2016 calendar. What do you make of the  images?   
JENNIFER SIEBEL NEWSOM, FILMMAKER & CEO, THE REPRESENTATION PROJECT: So this is an exciting time. Corporations and advertisers are coming to the realization  that women aren't just objects for the male gaze; that we have more value than  our youth, our beauty and our sexuality. This is a real statement and I  congratulate them for that.   
SESAY: I think you said something that echoes words from Annie Leibowitz, who actually shot the images for this calendar. She said the images weren't  conceived for the male gaze. Talk to me about how that impacts the images we see  in front of us. How do you think that played into how the shots were chosen and  staged?   
NEWSOM: You know, it's really -- it shouldn't be a surprise that there is a female photographer behind this, right, who's recognizing women in all of our --  all of our, I would, say expansive beauty, in our strengths, in our what's real,  you know, what's not photoshopped or touched up or covered up. So it's really  kind of demonstrating that we women are, you know, these full human beings and  we aren't just limited to this sort of ideal beauty that has been perpetuated  vis-a-vis main stream media for centuries.   
SESAY: And this is work that you have been involved in. This is something you have been calling for many years because the images -- the constant  sexualization, or portrayal, of women in this one dimensional object of desire  fashion has an impact on girls, on women who are trying to find their place in  the world.   
NEWSOM: Exactly, so young girls are learning right out of the womb that their value lies in their youth, their beauty and their sexuality. While we know  that's not the truth, unfortunately, the media and the larger culture, pop  culture have been sort of reinforcing that message, that we women are limited by  this youth, this beauty and this sexuality. And, you know, a lot of people talk  about the pornification of main stream media. I would say what we're doing, what  they've done with this new calendar, this sort of initiative, or campaign, if  you want to call it even that is recognizing us for our full humanity and not  just limiting us to our sexuality. That's critical to young girls' self esteem  just as it's critical that young boys and men start to value women for more than  what we look like.   
SESAY: So do you think this calendar does, in fact, signify a cultural shift or do you think it is one clever marketing exec's play?   
NEWSOM: I certainly hope it is more than a clever marketing exec's initiative. I do believe there are quite a few corporations and advertisers who have come to  the realization that sex is not the only way to sell and that women are so much  more than our youth, our beauty and our sexuality. We need to be recognized for  that. So, I am hopeful this is more than just a play. It is good business  because women have 84-percent -- or make 84-percent of purchasing decisions. In  our country, in the United States, but also I believe around the world. So I  think that -- I have hope. I have hope that this is part of something much  bigger than just one executive's initiative or attempt to, kind of, you know,  get a little attention 
. SESAY: Yes, as you talk about dollars and cents, youknow, it's one thing for women to be acknowledged as more than the sum of their beautiful parts, if you will, and acknowledged for their contributions and their  accomplishments, and it's another thing for us to be paid equitably and to be  paid on par with our male peers. That is still a battle to be won.       
NEWSOM: It's a huge battle to be won, just as family leave is a battle to be won. We have a lot of work to do in this country. So while this is a step in the  right direction, we still have so much more work to do to ensure that women and  men receive the same pay for the same work, that the work that many women choose  to do, whether its in education or the care-giving profession, is valued just as  the work that men do in finance is valued. We're at a critical juncture, a  turning point in our country and around the world, where I think people are  starting to wake up and pay attention to the fact that women matter, that  women's voices matter, that women need equal feet at the table. So this is just  one of those, sort of, cultural stepping points that I'm excited to witness and  be a part of and look forward to seeing many, many more.   
SESAY: We all do. Jennifer Siebel Newsom, thank you for your perspective tonight. Thank you for sharing.   
NEWSOME: Thank you.  
SESAY: And you are watching CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles. I'm Isha Sesay; thank you for watching. Stay with us. I'll be back with a look at the day's top  stories, right after this.   
