    
HIGHLIGHT: Presidential candidate Mike Huckabee discusses the Colorado shooting and the war on terror. Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper discusses the Planned  Parenthood attack in his state. New details emerge on the Planned Parenthood  shooting in Colorado that left three people dead. Texas Congressman Michael  McCaul discusses the ISIS threat. Radical Islamist working in French airports.  Colorado Springs shooter had anti-abortion and anti-government views. President  Obama calls for gun control in wake of Colorado shooting. Ted Cruz is Donald  Trump's chief rival in Iowa. Ben Carson drops in Iowa's poll. Ben Carson's  foreign policy credentials questioned.             
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN ANCHOR: New details on the Planned Parenthood shooting that left three people dead.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He was in front of me. And he was aiming at me. And he started shooting. And I was looking at his face.   
KEILAR: How did the gunman choose his target? The political fallout, as the president pleads, enough is enough.    Plus: more arrests in the Paris terror attacks, as officials warn of radicals  working inside airports. What is the U.S. doing to prevent a plot here?    And Trump under fire, his comments about Muslims in America sent fact- checkers  into a frenzy.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I watch when the World Trade Center came tumbling down, where thousands and thousands of people were cheering.  Thousands of people were cheering.   
KEILAR: Then he mocks the physically disabled reporter who disputed his claim.  
TRUMP: Now, the poor guy, you got to see this guy. Oh, I don't know what I said. Ah, I don't remember. I don't remember. I don't.   
KEILAR: But will any of it damage his front-runner status? Plus, the top political minds will be here with insights from the campaign trail.       
KEILAR: Hi there. I'm Brianna Keilar, filling in for Jake Tapper here in Washington, where the state of our union is tragic.    Baby parts, that's the phrase that the investigators say the shooter used after  surrendering at this Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs. Robert Lewis  Dear, who killed three people and injured nine others, told police he had  anti-abortion and anti-government views.    His most recent address was here, this trailer in this desolate mountain  community of Hartsel, Colorado, where his neighbors say people go to be left  alone.       
ZIGMOND POST, NEIGHBOR OF ALLEGED SHOOTER: He was talking to us and everything, gave us some anti-Obama fliers, little pamphlets. And I didn't even really read  them.       
KEILAR: Before moving to Colorado, he lived here in a remote cabin in North Carolina. And his police records in the Carolinas includes complaints about  animal abuse and an accusation that he was a Peeping Tom. He will appear in  court on Monday to face charges.    And joining us now to talk about this and more, we have Republican presidential  candidate Mike Huckabee.    Governor, thanks so much for joining us. We certainly appreciate it.   
MIKE HUCKABEE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, delighted to be here, Brianna.  
KEILAR: I do want to begin with this shoot-out that took place on Friday at this Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs.    You heard that law enforcement is now telling CNN the shooter has anti-abortion,  anti-government views. And he referenced baby parts following the attack.  Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains put out this following statement.    It said: "We share the concerns of many Americans that extremists are creating a  poisonous environment that feeds domestic terrorism in this country."    What do you make of this argument, Governor?   
HUCKABEE: Well, we don't know fully what the facts are. They're still being determined. We don't even know some of the victims' names yet.    But regardless of why he did it, what he did is domestic terrorism, and what he  is did is absolutely abominable, especially to those of us in the pro-life  movement, because there's nothing about any of us that would condone or in any  way look the other way at something like this.    We're not going have the kind of language that you heard from John Kerry, where  he's talked about legitimizing or rationalizing terrorist actions. There is no  legitimizing. There is no rationalizing. It was mass murder. It was absolutely  unfathomable.    And there's no excuse for killing other people, whether it's happening inside  the Planned Parent headquarters, inside their clinics, where many millions of  babies die, or whether it's people attacking Planned Parenthood.    We ought to value life. Every life truly does have worth and value. And this is  an incredible tragedy. And I don't know of anybody who will say anything other  than just outright condemnation for this horrible, horrible, despicable act of  murder.   
KEILAR: Planned Parenthood seems to be -- well, it is blaming the rhetoric that popped up following the videos that came out that were taped, various videos of  Planned Parenthood. And they say the rhetoric really has created this  environment where this happened.    Do you agree with that?   
HUCKABEE: Brianna, I don't know of any pro-life leader, any -- if you can tell me one, please correct me, but I don't know of anybody who has suggested  violence toward Planned Parenthood personnel or some act of violence toward  their clinics. I have not heard that, not from one single pro-life person.    I have heard universal condemnation, whether it's from the Centers for Medical  Progress that put out the videos, whether it's from pro-life advocates. And I  consider myself one of them. I know of nobody who has ever suggested that  Planned Parenthood be the target of some type of violent attack.        So, I think that's a little bit disingenuous on the part of Planned Parenthood  to blame people who have a strong philosophical disagreement with the  dismembering of human babies and with the selling of body parts to say that we  would like to retaliate by sending some madman into a clinic to kill people.    God knows that's not what anybody would want. And this person, apparently, from  everything we know, very unstable person, and just a terrible tragedy,  especially for that police officer and his family.   
KEILAR: This shooting has certainly revived the debate over abortion. You support banning abortion by declaring that a fetus is a person that has rights  under the Constitution.    Can you explain under your plan what the criminal penalty would be for a woman  if she did get an abortion?   
HUCKABEE: Well, there wouldn't be a criminal penalty against a woman.   I have often said, Brianna, that there are two victims with every abortion. One  is the unborn child who loses its life, and the other is often that woman who is  talked into the abortion, pressured into it, maybe feels she has no other  option.    There's no reason to criminalize her. I personally think that that would be a  useless and, frankly, a harsh and unnecessary kind of attack on a woman who  needs love and support and assistance, not criminalization.   
KEILAR: I do want to turn now to the fight against ISIS, Governor. I want to ask you about something that you actually tweeted last week.    You said: "After today's attack in Mali, the Obama-approved domestic anti-terror  plan, give up your guns and memorize a Koran verse."    Memorize a Koran verse?   
HUCKABEE: Brianna, after the attack in Mali, there were numerous reports that the gunmen were going around and saying, can you quote a verse from the Koran?  If they said yes, they were allowed to go free. If they couldn't, they were  shot.    And so the point was is that, while the president has said we need to disarm  law-abiding people, it was just a reminder that we are at war with radical  Islam, whether we want to admit that or not. It's not that we are at war with  all Islam, but we are at war with those who believe that the purpose they have  on earth is to declare a worldwide caliphate to kill all the infidels and all  the unbelievers, which would mean everyone, including other Muslims, who don't  agree to their harsh, intense, anti-woman, anti-human being approach to life and  who want to take us back to the seventh century.    And so that was the point of the tweet.   
KEILAR: So, you -- did you men mean, then, to lump the president and the terrorists in Mali together?   
HUCKABEE: Oh, heavens no. And I don't think anybody suggested that. And I certainly didn't.    I'm simply pointing out the irony. This president has shown considerable more  intensity of anger toward Republicans than he has toward ISIS. I mean, I  remember those press conferences, the one in Manila and the one in Turkey prior  to that, where you could see the visible visceral anger this president had as he  spoke about Republicans.    And he was so frustrated that there was not just a universal acceptance of his  point of view about relocation of refugees, calling people who disagreed with  him as un-American. It was harsh.    And I just wanted him to show the same kind of anger directed toward the ISIS  terrorists and, frankly, all of the radical Islamists that we saw from the  French president, Hollande, after Paris attacks, where he clearly said, let's  close our borders. Let's get a handle on this, and let's go after these guys  with everything we have and be unrelenting in destroying them.    That's what we all need to do. The family of civilized nations need to get  together, and we need to destroy this threat once and for all.   
KEILAR: You have called for sanctioning countries that don't join the coalition against ISIS. We have often heard this phrase, right, the coalition of the  willing. Are you proposing a coalition of the unwilling?   
HUCKABEE: If you mean coalition of the unwilling, those who refuse to lift a finger to stop this aggression, they should be isolated. And, yes, we should put  sanctions on them.    There's no excuse, especially for Middle Eastern nations, especially for Muslim  Middle Eastern nations, to simply sit back and do nothing and let America, the  United Kingdom, France, NATO countries, to let the rest of the world attack this  malignant cancer called Islamic jihadism, and then sit back and protect their  own special and well- funded kingdoms.    There has to be a concerted effort. This is a world battle. And we're fighting  not so much for land, real estate, and the color of our flag. Brianna, we're --  we're really fighting for whether or not we're going to be a civilized world or  we're going to be savages, because what is represented by Islamic jihadism is  nothing less than savagery and uncivilized behavior.        When you cut people's heads off because they don't agree with your faith, when  you put them in a cage, you pour gas on them, and set them afire in a cage,  that's not civilized behavior. That's savagery.   
KEILAR: All right, Governor Huckabee, thanks so much for being with us on STATE OF THE UNION. We certainly appreciate your time this Sunday morning.   
HUCKABEE: Thank you, Brianna.  
KEILAR: And coming up: One governor orders police to patrol Planned Parenthood clinics. Are other locations being threatened? We have that next.       
KEILAR: Welcome back to STATE OF THE UNION. I'm Brianna Keilar.   New York State Police will begin patrolling Planned Parenthood clinics beginning  on Monday. Governor Cuomo called for the additional security measures this  weekend in the wake of Friday's shooting at a clinic in Colorado Springs.    And joining me now is Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper.    Governor, thanks so much for being with us. We are certainly thinking of your  state during the aftermath of this very terrible holiday weekend.    We know at this point that a police officer was murdered during this attack.  There's two other people who were killed as well. They haven't been identified.  Do you know if either of them were patients or staff of the clinic?   
GOV. JOHN HICKENLOOPER, COLORADO: Well, we can't talk about that quite yet. They haven't released that information publicly. But, certainly, the police  officer, Garrett Swasey, was a wonderful person, two kids. I'm sure you have  seen the news clips on him, a wonderful skater, just a wonderful human being. I  mean, this world is the worse for his loss. I mean, it's -- that -- that, in  itself, is unfathomable.   
KEILAR: Yes, six years on the force. He was responding immediately, as he could, to the shooting there.    We did hear from the attorney general calling this an attack on women. So, I  know that you can't -- and, certainly, we -- we respect that at this point, that  you can't identify the other two victims, but were they women?   
HICKENLOOPER: Again, I believe one was a woman. One was a man.   But I don't think -- I think that misses the point to try and get into whether  the perpetrator -- and I -- to be honest, I don't even like saying the guy's  name. I don't like making these mass killers into celebrities of some sort, some  twisted way.    But I don't -- whether he was successful or not is beyond the point. It's --  that he was trying to do this is -- I don't know -- I mean, it's a very, very  hard reality to understand and get our arms around it.    And, in Colorado, we passed universal background checks. But, at the same time,  in Colorado Springs, it's one of the more conservative parts of the state. We  probably have more people that have licenses for concealed weapons, probably  more guns around. That didn't help.    I think, as a -- as a state, but as a country, we have got a lot more thinking  about this, of how to make sure we keep guns out of the hands of people that are  unstable.   
KEILAR: You're saying those efforts that you helped spearhead obviously didn't prevent this, as you're saying.    The president, though, when he responded to this attack, it was with a call for  gun control. And, first of us -- first of all, can you tell us anything about  the weapons that were used here? All we know at this point is that there was a  long gun, and we really don't know much else.   
HICKENLOOPER: Yes.   I think, again, the mayor of Colorado Springs, John Suthers, is a former U.S.  attorney general, former district attorney, former attorney general of the  state. I'm going to let him reveal the evidence. That's -- he knows that better  than anyone.   
KEILAR: I guess my question is, is there an argument to be made? Obviously, you pushed through legislation in the wake of other shootings in your state, but is  there an argument to be made, as the president is making, that there is a role  for increasing gun control in reaction to this specific shooting 
? HICKENLOOPER:Well, I think, I mean, we're still -- Colorado Springs and I think the whole country is still grieving on this, so, you know, detailed plans probably aren't  appropriate.    But I think we have to come back and look at all aspects of why these shootings  have continued to occur, you know, in Oregon or South Carolina and Colorado. The  frequency is unacceptable. And I don't -- you know, I'm not willing to say,  well, we will just have to set -- sit back and accept this as a cost of freedom.    I think we have to really look at, how do we address -- you know, how do we make  sure that people have -- who are unstable, who have violent histories, you know,  if somehow -- if a level of domestic violence made it much more difficult to get  a weapon, maybe we would not only keep our communities safer, but also cut down  on domestic violence at the time.    I'm just throwing that out as one -- one of many things we have got to think  about of how to try and keep guns out of the hands of people that are violent  and unstable.   
KEILAR: Governor, we have reported that there were propane tanks near the suspect's car that he intended to explode. That is something that could have  caused tremendous damage. Do you think the carnage could have been even worse  here?   
HICKENLOOPER: Well, I think the first-responders -- and I visited three police officers in the hospital yesterday -- their efforts were remarkable.    And the level of courage and bravery that they exhibited, I mean, when they got  the call, they went right into -- right into action. So, without question, it  could have been worse on -- it could have been worse on a lot of levels.   
KEILAR: I do want to ask you a final question here.   Planned Parenthood, almost immediately, even before we exactly knew the facts or  anything about the motivation here -- we now know that the shooter referenced  baby parts when he was arrested. Planned Parenthood is calling this domestic  terrorism. Do you agree with that assessment?       
HICKENLOOPER: Well, certainly it's -- it is a form of terrorism, and maybe in some way, it's a function of the inflammatory rhetoric that we see on all -- I  mean, so many issues now, there are bloggers, and, you know, talk shows where  they really focus on trying to get people to that point of boiling over and just  intense anger.    And I think maybe it's time to look at, how do we tone down some of that  rhetoric? Obviously, no one is going to try and reduce free speech in this  country, but that rhetoric clearly is -- if people are in some way emotionally  unstable or psychologically unbalanced, that intensity of rhetoric sometimes  seems to pull a trigger in their brain that they lose contact with what reality  is.   
KEILAR: So, are you calling -- just to sort of see what you're saying here a little more clearly, are you calling for changes in blogging, in video games?   
HICKENLOOPER: No, no, I'm not -- I'm in no way trying to limit free speech.   I think that the -- our community, right, the United States of America, ought to  begin a discussion looking at, how do you begin to tone back the inflammatory  rhetoric that, in some ways, it might be good for, I don't know, selling  products and advertisements or whatever, but, in some way, it is inflaming  people to the point where they can't stand it, and they go out and they lose  connection with reality in some way and commit these acts of unthinkable  violence.    I'm not saying that we restrict people's freedom of speech, nowhere, nowhere  near that. But I think we should have a discussion of, you know, at least urging  caution when we discuss some of these issues, so that we don't get people to a  point of going out and committing senseless violence.   
KEILAR: Governor Hickenlooper, thank you so much.   And we do want you to know that our thoughts and prayers are with your state and  certainly the people of Colorado Springs.   
HICKENLOOPER: Thank you very much. Appreciate that.  
KEILAR: A secret document shows French authorities have been worried for years about Islamic radicals working inside of airports.    So, what is the risk to U.S.-bound flights? I will be asking a top homeland  security official after a break.       
KEILAR: Welcome back to STATE OF THE UNION. I'm Brianna Keilar, filling in for Jake Tapper.    President Obama leaves for Paris this morning. He will join over 150 heads of  state to talk about climate change, but the specter of the gruesome terror  attacks in the heart of Europe will hang over their trip.    The French government has arrested 300 people since the attacks in Paris, and  police are still hunting for Salah Abdeslam, one of the terrorists who fled.    Joining me now is Congressman Michael McCaul. He's a Republican from Texas. He's  also the chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. So, we're hoping to get  some information about some of the latest that we're hearing out of Paris. Mr.  Chairman, do you know anything about whether investigators may be closer to  finding Abdeslam? Do you think that they have a sense of whether he's still in  Europe or if, instead, he may have made his way to Syria?   
REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL, TEXAS: Well, I can't get into that level of specificity. I don't want to compromise their investigation.    I do think they're closing in on him, and that's the good news. There are many  involved in this plot. It was a very sophisticated plot, an external operation  that we have seen from ISIS. You mentioned the bombing of the Russian airliner.  This is a new ISIS, a new chapter, for them to be able to conduct three external  operations in just recent times.    We're very concerned about their capability against the United States as well.   
KEILAR: So, you're saying that authorities are closing in on this terrorist at large in Europe or perhaps in Syria at this point.    I guess, can you talk about that a little further? Why -- you're basically  saying you're encouraged about where this investigation has gone.   
MCCAUL: I am, but, obviously, I don't want to jeopardize an ongoing investigation that is so important.    And, look, you know, Belgium, Paris, they have rounded up a lot of suspects  right now. They're really cracking down on security, as they should. Europe is  so wide-open, Brianna, because they had 5,000 Europeans that have gone to Iraq  and Syria with Western passports, many of whom have come back.    And the Paris attacks were the classic case of the foreign fighter. The United  States, we have had hundred of them travel over there, and 50 have come back to  the United States. So, I think Europe has a far greater problem than we have in  the United States.    However, we still have made many arrests in the United States, over 70 ISIS  followers last year. We have 1,000 investigations in all 50 states. So, we take  it very seriously in the homeland as well.   
KEILAR: Let's talk about how Europe's problem could become the problem of the U.S.    CNN was actually able to see a document from the French Interior Ministry this  week, and it has intelligence that shows concern for the radicalization of  airport workers. Stunningly, this goes all the way back to 2004, more than a  decade past. And a source is telling us that more than 100 public transit  workers have left for Syria since 2012.    How concerned are you about airport workers getting a bomb onto a U.S.-bound  flight? I mean, we're talking about cities where they have direct flights to the 
U.S. MCCAUL: I -- yes, I'm very concerned about this. You know, we have ramped up security at last points of destination. Those are direct flights into the  United States.    But, Brianna, what happened at Sharm el-Sheikh was an insider threat.        This is one where someone is comprised or radicalized or perhaps bribed to put a  piece of luggage, put a bomb on the airplane, that is a worker at the airport.    So, we can have the best screening technology but if we have an insider threat  out there, that is very, very hard to stop. And that kind of scenario playing on  an airliner flying directly into the United States is what I'm most concerned  about. And ISIS now has demonstrated they have that capable that we only thought  al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula had. So this is something now we're vetting  employees, I think a lot more strictly. And I had a bill that passed out of the  Congress to do that as well. But this is one of the biggest threats to the  aviation sector.   
KEILAR: Are you confident that the U.S. will be able to stop a threat like this especially when it seems like this is very old intelligence that may or may not  have been shared or certainly been a concern for the U.S.?   
MCCAUL: But we know originally they wanted to target a western airliner when Russia invaded the region into Syria they turned their sights on to Russia. But  al Baghdadi when he was released from prison in Iraq, in his words he said "I'll  see you in New York." So, that shows you the intent behind ISIS.    Do they have the capability? I think their capabilities have ramped up recently  far beyond what we thought they were capable of doing. And I think the bottom  line is until we deal with that threat where it exists, until we drain the swamp  in Syria the swamp is going to come to the United States. I think that's where  we need to be focused on. Our National Defense Authorization bill requires a  president to come up with a strategy to defeat and destroy ISIS. Present that to  the Congress. Sowhile he's talking about climate change in Paris.  He's talking about how can the NATO forces and the U.S. coalition forces and  possibly the Russians work to defeat and destroy ISIS.   
KEILAR: I want to ask you before I let you go about Friday's shooting in Colorado Springs. The shooter there at the Planned Parenthood clinic made  reference to baby parts after he was arrested. Planned Parenthood calling this  an act of domestic terror.    Do you think that women are safe going to Planned Parenthood clinics?   
MCCAUL: Well, this is a horrible tragedy. It doesn't advance the pro life movement killing. Any lives doesn'tadvance that.    I think this is a case of mental illness. We have found that under current law  if you're adjudicated mentally defective you can't purchase a firearm. What we  found is that too many of these cases have not gotten into the system like the  Navy yard shooter. And I think we need to look at there's legislation to put  more of this -- more of these cases into the system so that we can try to  prevent something like this.    But, you know, I mean it's just a very sad event that, you know, it's a -- I can  see why women would be concerned, and I know that with the clinics that the  security is being heightened.   
KEILAR: We know that's happening in a number of cities. Congressman McCaul, thanks so much for being with us. We really appreciate your time this morning.  And enough is enough.   
MCCAUL: Thank you.  
KEILAR: That is what President Obama said following Friday's shooting in Colorado Springs. The president vents his frustration after yet another  shooting. After the break.       
KEILAR: Welcome back. I'm Brianna Keilar in for Jake Tapper.   Planned Parenthood called attack on its clinic in Colorado Springs an act of  domestic terror. The attorney general called it a crime against women, and the  president used it to, again, call for gun control.    Joining me now to talk about the political fallout of this shooting we have Sean  Spicer, is the chief strategies of the Republican National Committee. We have  CNN political commentators Donna Brazile, S.E. Cupp and Bakari Sellers.    So, I want to start now talk about the shooting at Planned Parenthood in  Colorado Springs. This is what Hillary Clinton tweeted about it. She said,  "Today and every day we stand with Planned Parenthood." This is her recent tweet  about it.    And I wonder, though, S.E., when you look at the debate. I mean, even just this  morning talking to Republicans I certainly noticed a change in the tone. Do you  think that this changes the tenor of the debate over abortion right now?   
S.E. CUPP, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, I think it's a terrible idea to blame debate for what is a horrific act of violence. If you're going to do that  then you have to say that leftist rhetoric was to blame when Floyd Corkins went  into the Family Research Center and shot at that office. That's just a wasteful  exercise and to hear your former guest John Hickenlooper, the governor of  Colorado suggest that we need to somehow change our tone or police our rhetoric  because of the act of what I'm assuming is going to be a madman is a  distractions and a waste 
. DONNA BRAZILE, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: S.E.,Planned Parenthood said that there's been an alarming increase in hateful rhetoric and smear campaigns against abortion for providers and patients over  the last few months. What they're saying is that this is creating a toxic,  poisonous environment. Women have the right to have an abortion and the full  range of reproductive health services.   
KEILAR: In your view, part of the reason why this happened Planned Parenthood is certainly drawing that conclusion.   
BRAZILE: First of all -- first of all -- no,they didn't draw that conclusion. There was one little sentence, one little snippet.        We don't really know the motivation of this madman, this murder, but we do know  that there is an atmosphere out there not just in Colorado Springs but across  the country where women want to have the opportunity to go to these clinics. Our  men, too, because Planned Parenthood is open to everyone and there's no reason  to create --       
CUPP: Ithe opinion --      
BRAZILE: ...I'm not...      
BRAZILE: ...of everyone including Donald Trump who might say something crazy tomorrow.   
BAKARI SELLERS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: We have to acknowledge that the rhetoric in this country has gotten out of hand. And I think that's what people  are talking about. Whether or not we're in debates talking about Operation  Wetback or anything else the way that we communicate with people, on both the  right and left, has gotten just completely out of hand.    Now, I don't want to -- I also don't want to just let this guy off and just say  he was deranged and a loner. I mean, I want to actually have a conversation  about guns in this country. I want to have a conversation about mass shootings.  When we just discount him as somebody who is a loner, somebody who is just going  to do it anyway it takes away from the discussions that we need to have.   
KEILAR: About mental health I would assume --      
SEAN SPICER, RNC CHIEF AND COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: I agree. I think this is a mental health issue. But one big take away that I think gets lost in the  discussion is we've had a lot of discussion about law enforcement over the last  month. And correctly so in terms of the use of force.    What we saw this week was Officer Garret Swasey running to an incident and it's  a reminder that gets lost in this discussion of what law enforcement does every  single day to protect...       
SPICER: ... an unbelievable sacrifice to me.  
KEILAR: It really is tremendous. And certainly not to take away from that at all, Sean. You say it's an issue of mental health and yet the mental health bill  -- the overall bill is languishing in a House committee, a Republican House  committee. If it's such a priority then why is nothing being done?   
SPICER: I think it should. And I think you've heard a lot of the folks and maybe this shooting is the impetus for that. But the fact of the matter is  that one thing all of us, I think, can agree on is that this was -- this guy is  nuts. He was crazy. He's mentally unstable. Whenwe don't know anything  about the particulars of this incident there's no way that anybody sane could  commit such heinous act. And that's -- that's the number one thing that we have  to concentrate.because Governor Hickenlooper himself talked about  all the lengths that Colorado has gone to, you know, universal background  checks. So, adding another layer to stop a crazy person is actually crazy  itself.   
KEILAR: I do want to talk about guns. The president -- this is where he went. It has almost become a bit of a reflexit seems when you have shooting he  said, "This is not normal. We have to do something about the easy accessibility  of weapons of war on our streets. Enough is enough."    But does anything change?   
SELLERS: And that's the -- that's why I can't let Sean get away with it casting this as being mental health and casting it aside because of the simple fact that  if we were going to do something in this country about guns, we would have done  it after a madman went into Sandy Hook and killed 20 kids and six adults. But we  didn't. And we keep having these discussions. Whether or not it's Charleston,  whether or not it's Oregon, or whether or not now it's in Colorado. And it seems  as if we're having trouble getting our friends on the right to actually want to  do something substantiveabout guns in our community.   
BRAZILE:there are a lot of people with mental disabilities and we stigmatize people with mental disabilities and mental health issues. And many of  them are not violent. And so we need to make a --   
SELLERS: And our language is powerful.  
BRAZILE: We have to be careful about doing that as well.   Last night I went on the website -- there were five people murdered in this  country, 14 injured due to gun violence. We have to figure out how to strengthen  the background system. We got to make sure we do everything right -- everything  right because we have an issue in this country and we have to talk about it.   
SPICER: Governor Hickenlooper detailed all of the lengths that they have gone to in Colorado.   
SELLERS: But it's a fact. It's a fact. Dylann Roof would not have gotten the weapon that he went into a church and murdered nine people but for a loophole in  our gun laws.   
SPICER: No, no. It wasn't a loophole. It was a failure.      
CUPP: ...the fact that we haven't had major federal gun law legislation in the wake of some of these shootings. We have had local and state gun legislation in  places like Colorado and New York that have been in many cases had to be  repealed and drawn back because they have to be found to be unenforceable,  unproductive, inefficient. I mean, there is a sensible conversation to be had.  But when you're a Democratic candidate calling the NRA and law-abiding gun  owners enemies you can't have a -- you can't have a conversation that is  actually productive.   
KEILAR: We have a lot more to talk about ahead certainly with an important trip that presidential candidate Ben Carson has made overseas after critics call out  his lack of experience on foreign policy. Is this visit going to beef up -- is  going toon international affairs? We'll see. We'll ask the panel  next.           
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If Donald Trump says Muslims must register with our government because you're not one. You might not care if Donald trump says it's  OK to rough up black protesters because you're not one. But think about this, if  he keeps going and he actually becomes president, he might just get around to  you.       
KEILAR: That is a new web video from the John Kasich campaign targeting Donald Trump. And if the language sounds familiar that's because it invokes a famous  warning about Nazis.    I want to bring in our panel to talk about this. Donna Brazile, Sean Spicer,  Bakari Sellers and S.E. Cupp.    Sean, to you first on this, if Republicans, for instance, Kasich, in this -- in  this instance -- if Republicans are successful in this line of attack, are you  worried that Donald Trump will just turn around? He has hinted last week, you  know, a third party run isn't out of the realm of question. Are you worried  about that 
? SPICER: I'm not. I think Mr. Trump has made it clear. We've hadconversations with him. He understands the importance of staying a Republican. He signed a pledge.        He understands that any break in the Republicans will help Hillary Clinton get  elected and that's something that he won't stand for.    But I think getting to the video -- look, it's no surprise we at the RNC really  invoke Reagan's 11th commandment. We believe that our candidates should be  focused on expressing their vision and why they want to be president of the  United States. And focusing their attacks on Hillary Clinton, the presumptive  Democratic nominee.   
BRAZILE: That's the only thing that keeps the Republicans together.      
BRAZILE: Look, xenophobia is very popular right now in the Republican Party and Donald Trump is the leader of the choir. And as long as he's able to get the  kind of support that he's getting by raising his voice and demonizing people,  Donald Trump is going to continue to lead within the Republican Party--   
CUPP: You've got a lot of Republicans come out against what Donald Trump has said. And I think it's pretty irresponsible to paint the entire party as  xenophobic. He's got 35 percent of the vote. That means 65 percent of the party  is not with Donald Trump.    Look, I think attempts to paint Donald Trump as a Nazis or a fascist  gives him too much credit to assume that he's got some kind of guiding principle  leading him through any of this, I think, is giving him way too much credit. I  think he is purely acting on reflex and responding to, you know, the crowds and  we are just kind of along for the ride.   
SELLERS: Well, the video is good. I thought the video was really good. I thought that Kasich -- we're talking about him this morning. People are talking about  him across the country. You know, his name hasn't been one that has been on the  rise lately. But Donald Trump does use. Donald Trump does use  language that is xenophobic to say the least. He's offend anyone, I think, in  this country except rich, white men. And so, you know, when you have that type  of dialogue, when you have that type of rhetoric I'm just glad somebody finally  punched him back in the mouth.   
KEILAR: Are you worried, Sean, that --      
BRAZILE: ...rich, white men too.  
KEILAR: I was going to say I think he actually has. But Donna -- you hear what Donna is saying. You hear what Hillary Clinton is saying. She's painting all  Republicans with this 
... SELLERS: The Donald Trump brush.
KEILAR: ... Donald Trump brush.      
SPICER: No, I don't. And you know why? Because, look, when you look at every Battleground Poll everyone of our candidates beats her head to head not just  nationwide but in key battleground states.    So, we can talk about that but the reality is that if I were a Democrat, if I  were Donna or Bakari, what I would be concerned about is that they have put all  their eggs in one basket and that basket is broken. Hillary Clinton's  unfavorables are so off the charts it's unbelievable. She has no trust. She  flip-flops in every set of issues. They have a set of rules for themselves that  they follow. That's true. And the fact of the matter is that the --       
BRAZILE: Sean, the Republican brand -- the Republican brand is unfavorable. Donald Trump is unfavorable.       
BRAZILE: Look at your candidates.  
SPICER: Right now Hillary Clinton loses every day --  
BRAZILE: Look at --      
BAKARI: I think that Sean -- I think Sean can't say with the straight face most Republicans can't say with the straight face that Donald Trump will beat Hillary  Clinton --       
SPICER: Donald Trump will beat Hillary Clinton.  
SELLERS: But we know --      
BRAZILE: No, no. I'm not Mitt Romney.      
BRAZILE: I don't have -- I don't have -- I've got $10.00.      
BRAZILE: But look, the truth is is that we don't have a nominee in the Democratic Party.   
SPICER: Yes, you do.  
BRAZILE: No, we don't.      
SPICER: ... give me a break.  
BRAZILE: No, no because --  
CAPP: You're saying Martin O'Malley can pull it out, right?  
SPICER: Yes.  
BRAZILE: You know what --  
SELLERS: Youhave a chance.  
BRAZILE: We're having a -- we're having a different kind of debate and discussion in the Democratic Party. Bernie Sanders --   
SPICER: You're going through the motions.  
BRAZILE: Good. Because that's good. That improves democracy. That strengthens our debate within our party and that gives us a very strong viable candidate  when our process is over.       
KEILAR: Let's talk about --      
BRAZILE: Sean, one of the three candidates will become the 45th president of the United States.   
KEILAR: Let's talk about some of the other candidates.   It is Cruz not Ben Carson who is now Donald Trump's chief rival in Iowa. There  is an important poll that came out this week and it shows that Ted Cruz is  really -- I mean, look at him. There he is at 23 percent, really close to Donald  Trump, splitting Donald Trump and Ben Carson which is where we've seen those two  men align there.    Do you think that it's -- for Carson and he's even said this, he thinks it's the  terrorism issue that is making voters say maybe not. Maybe he's not the guy.  Maybe he doesn't have the experience.   
SPICER: I think there's a lot of volatility right now that's going to exist both in New Hampshire and in Iowa. And you're going to see people go up and down. I  just -- and that's historically always been the case. I think we're going to see  more volatility between now and when Iowa goes to their caucus February 2nd. And  New Hampshire goes to their primary February 9th. There's going to be more  volatility. That shouldn't surprise anyone. That has always been the case. Fully  expect it to be the case this cycle 
. KEILAR: What do you think about theterrorism issue and how this is affecting the polls? It seems -- it seems like it's really shaking it up.   
CUPP: It is. And any time foreign policy is front and center, I think it benefits Republicans. Most of the country thinks Republicans are better able to  handle issues like terrorism and foreign policy issues. So that's, I guess, a  good thing for our side.    But for folks like Ben Carson who have zero experience with any of this and I'm  sorry he can take as many field trips abroad as he wants, he's not going to get  the -- the requisite experience that he needs. This is clearly turning some  voters who previously liked him off and onto someone like Ted Cruz.   
KEILAR: With Ted Cruz's rise -- I mean, I've heard Democrats in the Clinton campaign they're not as worried about Marco Rubio. They're not as worried about  Ted Cruz.        Would you like to see Ted Cruz --       
BRAZILE: You know, I haven't talkedthe Clinton campaign about who they are afraid of. But I'd --   
KEILAR: I have.          
BRAZILE: Ted Cruz -- Ted Cruz isslow candidate that is building...  
SELLERS: That'sright.  
BRAZILE: ...strong support and strength. He has the support of the evangelicals. And you know what? He's the guy who's organizing in the Deep South right now.  So, Ted Cruz is clearly onto something.   
KEILAR: Donna, Sean, Bakari, S.E., thanks to all of you.   And thanks so much for spending your Sunday with us.    And go to CNN.com/SOTU for extras from the show. I'm Brianna Keilar in  Washington.    "FAREED ZAKARIA, GPS" starts next.   
