    
HIGHLIGHT: Kurdish fighters have been on the front lines in Syria trying to stop ISIS from advancing; The U.S. Defense Department announced on Tuesday it is  deploying additional forces, boosting the less than 50 President Obama  authorized in October; Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Pricilla  Chan, are now the proud parents of a baby girl named Max; Mark Zuckerberg,  Facebook's billionaire founder, plans to donate 99-percent of their Facebook  stock to charity during their lifetime. Korean Pop Star, PSY is back. This time  PSY showing off what he says he got from his daddy; and people seem to like it.  More forces being sent in since Paris attacks. Jewish community in Paris on top  of terrorist's list. President Obama and China's president hold cyber spying  talks. Lebanese authorities said Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's ex-wife released for  prisoner swap.     
 ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: This is CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles.    Ahead this hour, Britain and Germany are considering new action against ISIS and  the United States says it's sending more special forces to fight the terror  group.    Plus, we are learning that the ringleader of the Paris terror attacks may have  had other targets in mind.    And the members of this fighting force made up entirely of women say they're  ready to take on ISIS.    Hello, and thank you for joining us. I'm Isha Sesay. NEWSROOM L.A. starts right  now.    We begin this hour with the war on ISIS. Lawmakers in Germany and the U.K. will  begin debate in the hours ahead on expanding their military response. And the  U.S. says it will send additional special operations forces to fight ISIS in  Iraq.    Pentagon correspondent Barbara Starr has the details.       
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Hundreds of U.S. special operations and support forces heading to dangerous ground in Iraq and Syria.   
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: These special operators will, over time, be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather intelligence, and capture ISIL  leaders. This force will also be in a position to conduct unilateral operations  in Syria.   
STARR: The announcement to send more forces coming after the attacks in Paris. The military will now do more risky missions, such as the special operations  hostage rescue raid in October where Master Sergeant Joshua Wheeler was killed  in action.   
CARTER: We're good at intelligence. We're good at mobility. We're good at surprise. We have the long reach that no one else has. And it puts everybody on  notice in Syria that you don't know at night who's going to be coming in the  window, and that's the sensation that we want all of ISIL's leadership and  followers to have.   
STARR: The new force will number just dozens of commandos. But they will have significant backup -- helicopters to get to their targets, rescue forces if they  run into trouble, potentially some 200 troops in all, officials say. All of this  as a separate group of 50 Special Operations Forces are to arrive at any time in  Northern Syria to assist anti-ISIS forces there.    The chairman of the Joint Chiefs underscoring the U.S. needs better  intelligence.   
GEN. JOSEPH DUNFORD, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF CHAIRMAN: Our effectiveness is obviously inextricably linked to the quality of intelligence we have. And our  assessment is that this force and the operations this force will conduct will  provide us additional intelligence that will make our operations much more  effective.   
STARR: A raid in Syria that killed top ISIS operative Abu Sayyaf in May provided an initial trove of intelligence, leading to improved information about ISIS.  Two operatives still in the U.S. crosshairs? ISIS' leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi  and Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, said to be involved in plotting future attacks in  the West.    U.S. officials telling CNN it's still could be days or weeks before the U.S.  forces arrive.    Barbara Starr, CNN, the Pentagon.       
SESAY: Well, the British parliament will start its debate a short time from now on whether to launch airstrikes on ISIS in Syria. Thousands of protesters  marched outside the House of Commons Tuesday urging lawmakers to reject the  plan.    Prime Minister David Cameron says ISIS poses an unprecedented and direct threat  to the U.K.       
DAVID CAMERON, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: It is part of a broader strategy. It's about the politics, the diplomacy and the humanitarian aid, all of which we need  to bring to bear to bring peace to Syria but to make sure we protect our  interests, our national interests fighting against this appalling terrorist  organization.       
SESAY: Well, currently nine countries are part of a coalition launching airstrikes in Syria. Canada's new prime minister said his government is ending  airstrikes but will remain in the coalition. Russia is also conducting  airstrikes in Syria in support of the Assad regime and Iran has sent 1,000 of  its elite Revolutionary Guard forces to support Syrian army troops.    Well, turning now to France and French investigators are still unraveling the  details of other attacks terrorists were planning for Paris. And with a key  suspect still at large, many Parisians remain on edge.    Our Fred Pleitgen has the latest on the investigation.       
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: When French Police killed the alleged ringleader of the Paris attacks, Abdelhamid  Abaaoud, in a raid two weeks ago, sources say they probably also thwarted  further planned killings. One alleged target, Paris' Jewish community.     Clara Corcos is packing her things, leaving France for Israel. She  says fear of terrorism is not the only reason but certainly a factor.    "Sure you could walk in the streets but you could get attacked at any moment,"  she says. "It depends on the neighborhood you're in. But you're on the subway,  you could get harassed just for wearing Jewish religious symbols. You're not  necessarily going to get killed but you can easily get attacked."    Sources close to the investigation tell CNN after the initial Paris attacks, the  cell around Abaaoud had further plots, quote, "ready to go." Against France's  transport infrastructure, schools and also Jewish areas. In January, an Islamist  terrorist held up a kosher supermarket killing five people before being gunned  down by police.    Hamid Sacha Reingewirtz, the head of France's Jewish students union at a Paris  cafe. In spite of the recent violence he thinks Jews should stay in France.   
HAMID SACHA REINGEWIRTZ, PRESIDENT, FRENCH JEWISH STUDENT UNION: I am very patriotic. I am very proud of my French identity. And this is my country and I  do not intend to leave it and I'd rather stay here and fight for my rights,  fight for my rights to be safe from attacks.   
PLEITGEN: Another place on Abaaoud's terrorist target list, Paris' main business area.   
: La Defense is a huge commercial area but 180,000 people work here and most of them are business people. Now according to a source, Abdelhamid  Abaaoud wanted his cousin to buy him two pair of high-end suits and two pairs of  shoes for about 5,000 euros so that he and an accomplice would blend in when  they attacked the area. Even with the alleged ringleader killed, new information  about his possible additional plots is alarming to French authorities.    Still trying to figure out the size and sophistication of the terror network  that struck here on November 13th.    Frederik Pleitgen, CNN, Paris.   
SESAY: Well, Turkish authorities are investigating an explosion near a subway station in Istanbul Tuesday night. At least five people were injured. Some  reports say a bomb was to blame. But city government says the cause is unknown.  Turkey has been on alert since two suicide bombers killed more than 100 people  at a peace rally in Ankara in October. Turkey is part of the U.S.-led coalition  battling ISIS.    In Washington, top U.S. and Chinese security officials are trying to resolve  their differences and suspicions about hacking. They will soon begin a second  day of talks about cyber espionage, including the problem of government spying  on private businesses.    Correspondent Matt Rivers joins us now from Beijing with more.    Matt, how did these talks come about?   
MATT RIVERS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Isha, this dialogue that's going on in Washington right now is a direct result of the state trip that President Xi  Jinping of China took to Washington to meet with President Barack Obama back in  September. One of the main issues that the two men discussed was cyber security,  and both sides were able to come to an agreement about cyber security issues  between the two. As you mentioned, the big issue that was on the table back in  September was the issue of state-sponsored hacking into private companies.    The U.S. has long accused China of doing just that in an attempt to get some  kind of commercial or intellectual gain. China has always denied that it has  done that. But that said, that was the big issue on the table. They were able to  agree, both sides, that they would not do that. That that was a line that no --  that neither country would cross. And they also agreed to have dialogues, like  this one, moving forward about this issue.   
SESAY: And Matt, put these talks in further context for us. Their significance and whether we really expect anything substantive to come of them.   
RIVERS: Well, these talks are significant in the sense the U.S. and China have long -- had quite a bit of tension about cyber security issues. It was earlier  this year that the U.S. -- U.S. officials told CNN that they believed that it  was China's state-sponsored hacking that was responsible for the hack into the  Office of Personnel Management in the United States that resulted in the leaked  records of 21 million or so federal employees.    And it wasn't long after than in a separate incident that the U.S. actually  indicted five members of the Chinese military for attempted hacking into U.S.  firms. And so there's been a lot of tension over the years. So the fact that  these dialogues are happening, that there was an agreement put into place is  significant.     As for actionable items that will come out of these dialogues, the  Ministry of Public Security here in China did release a pretty vague statement  earlier today local time here in Beijing. They talked about a hotline being  established between both countries, some level of law enforcement cooperation  when it comes to cyber security issues. And they did say that there will be  another round of dialogue sometime next June. That would be of 2016. The U.S.  has not confirmed that yet but it does appear that there was progress made in  these talks on Tuesday in Washington, D.C.   
SESAY: Very interesting indeed. Matt Rivers reporting there from Beijing.   Matt, appreciate it. Thank you.    Well, it's been a wet couple of weeks in southern India but it got worse on  Tuesday. We'll have much more on the flooding in Chennai.    Plus, several boats have washed ashore in Japan carrying a gruesome cargo and  officials say they have a good guess where these ghost ships come from.   
SESAY: U.S. intelligence officials could soon get unique insight into the man who leads ISIS. The Lebanese government has just released Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's  ex-wife from custody.     Brian Todd has more on what information she might be able to share on  the mysterious ISIS leader.       
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: She has an intimate connection to the most wanted man in the world. Saja al-Dulaimi, the ex-wife of Abu Bakr  al-Baghdadi, has just been released from a Lebanese prison and now downplays her  past with the ISIS leader.   
SAJA AL-DULAIMI, ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI'S EX-WIFE: We divorced six or seven years ago. He wasn't al-Baghdadi or anything.   
TODD: This is believed to be footage of Dulaimi who was arrested in 2014 along with a young child. A Lebanese security source says a young girl, Dulaimi's  daughter, believed to have been fathered by Baghdadi, was also released with  her. One Lebanese official tells CNN Saja al-Dulaimi was freed as part of a  prisoner swap, traded for a group of Lebanese soldiers held by the al Qaeda  affiliate Al Nusra Front.   
FAYSAL ITANI, THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL: She was released because I think, A, her intelligence value to the Lebanese Security Forces ran out. She revealed all  that she could reveal or that they could get out of her and they ran out of  other options to retrieve the soldiers.   
TODD: Dulaimi's marriage to Baghdadi reported lasted only a few months. The ISIS' leader's current personal life is still a mystery. Iraqi intelligence has  said he has two wives. U.S. intelligence officials won't comment on whether  they'll want to question Saja al- Dulaimi or on any information Dulaimi might  have given to the Lebanese.    But a former CIA officer we spoke to says U.S. officials likely will want access  to her. Dulaimi could provide U.S. intelligence with cell phone numbers,  metadata belonging to Baghdadi, and even if it's dated it could still help  target the ISIS leader. And given his obsession with secrecy, any insight  Dulaimi could give on his personality could be critical.   
: That far removed, could she say anything useful now?  
ITANI: To be honest, I think the most they're doing is she would have most insight on is his relationships with people, who he trusts, the circles he moves  around in, how he coordinates with them, how he communicates, which areas he  feels secure in.   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: Some of the questions that could be asked of her include to what degree does Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi have an obsession  with the apocalypse, with the end of days, is he driven by that, is he going to  go for broke, all out in his confrontation with the West?   
TODD: But given Saja al-Dulaimi's current loyalties, it's not clear if she would have given the Lebanese any usual information. A Lebanese security  source says her current husband is involved with the al Qaeda affiliate, the Al  Nusra Front, and she has a brother who's a senior figure in the group.    Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.       
SESAY: Well, at least a dozen wooden boats have washed up on Japan shores and they were carrying decaying bodies. The coast guard is trying to find out where  the boats came from and what happened to those on board. Some clues are pointing  to North Korea.    CNN's Paula Hancocks is live in Seoul, South Korea with the latest.    Paula, what makes the Japanese coast guard believe these wooden vessels could be  from North Korea?   
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Isha, one of them actually had Korean writing on the side and it said Korean People's Army which  is the North Korean military. So the assumption being that it's a North Korean  military boat. Apparently there was a piece of cloth as well which was believed  to be part of a North Korean flag. So the assumption is that they are from North  Korea.    The fact that it's geographically close as well as in the fact that this has  happened before. But the question is, who are they? Who are these people on the  boats? Are they defectors that are trying to escape North Korea or are they  fishermen who have lost their way or military men who were trying to fish, as  well, and the boats simply aren't seaworthy have been lost at sea. So there's a  lot of unanswered questions. But this isn't something that just suddenly started  happening. It started to become more frequent in the past couple of months. But  there have been 34 of these boats this year, there were 65 last year and 80 the  year before. So just to give you an idea that this is definitely not a new  problem.   
SESAY: I know. Certainly isn't. Have we heard anything from North Korean officials on the matter?   
HANCOCKS: No. We've heard nothing whatsoever. And I don't think we will. This isn't something that they are likely to comment on. I did speak to one defector  here in South Korea, though, who had escaped from North Korea and he mentioned  that what he thinks is happening is that these may in fact be military men on  these boats that have been ordered by Kim Jong-Un, the leader, to start to fish  more.    We know in recent weeks we've seen Kim Jong-Un saying that there must be more  fish caught. This is important for food production in the country, it's  important for the country to earn money. They can export these fish and we've  seen Kim Jong-Un himself touring fisheries, as well. So there's a real focus in  the North on this at the moment. It's possible that some of the military men  have been sent out on boats which are, as I said, not seaworthy. That the  engines barely work. And they won't be able to get through choppy waters and  they don't have GPS. So it's possible that they could have gotten lost at sea.     And we heard from Japanese authorities that some of the bodies that  they found had been deceased for a week, some had been deceased for up to three  months. So you can imagine that these boats had been adrift for some time.   
SESAY: Just terrible. Paula Hancocks joining us there from Seoul, South Korea. Appreciate it, Paula. Thank you.    And now to massive flooding in southern India. Over 300 millimeters of rain fell  in Chennai in less than 18 hours. The airport was closed for several hours  because the runways were flooded. Train services were also cancelled.    Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri joins us with more on this historic rainfall.    These are incredible numbers when we look at the measurements of rainfall that  fell.   
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Yes, Isha. You know, what I always like to do is compare it to cities that we know very well for rainfall, London in  particular, known of course for its dubious gestation. Now this amount of  rainfall they saw in 18 hours would take about seven months to occur across  London. So kind of tells what we're dealing with across this portion of Chennai,  in India, in particular, this southern region of the sub-continent.    Incredible amounts of rainfall that have come down. Again, not just the past 24  hours or so but the rainfall has been persistent now going back for the entire  month of November where it rained almost every single day in the month of  November with tremendous intensity. So there's the 350 millimeters. That more  than doubles for this month when it comes to the month of December, of course.  Just on the first day of the month of December.    But look at what climatologically is considered normal across portions of India.  When you look at this rainfall amount, typically the beginning portion of the  year very dry conditions, very dry perspective, whereas the latter portion of  the year, of course, when you're talking about, say, September, October,  November, you get into the monsoon season, the rainfall totals it's up roughly  up to about 350 millimeters. That is what's normal. Now what occurred over the  past several weeks is incredible.    The rainfall amount actually came out upwards of 1100 millimeters. That is  triple the amount of the rainfall you would get in this time of year that has  come down in a matter of just a few days over this region of India. So of course  the sort of flooding leads to tremendous devastation that we've seen over this  region and still the forecast brings the storm system that meanders over this  region for the remainder of the week so the heavy rainfall not done with just  yet.    Here's the forecast moving in the next seven days. Thunderstorms the next three  days, rainfall for Saturday. Steady at times there. And then more thunderstorms  as you head from Saturday into Sunday. So the accumulations, once again, could  be upwards of 50 to 100 additional millimeters on top of what has already  occurred over this region. So that's what we're watching here. And of course the  monsoons as they're retreating or withdrawing over this region, it's very normal  for early December to see heavy rainfall over this region but of course not to  this intensity, and Isha, it appears that this is some of the heaviest rains  we've seen in about 100 years over this region of India.   
SESAY: Wow. We'll continue to follow it very closely. Pedram, appreciate it. Thank you.   
JAVAHERI: Thank you.  
SESAY: Now Wednesday is International Day for the Abolition of Slavery. For the past few weeks, CNN's Freedom Project has been asking the public to help fight  modern-day slavery by joining its Flight to Freedom Campaign.    Here are just a few of the pledges we've received so far.       
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, there, I'm Kristie Lu Stout. And I'm joining CNN's campaign to end modern-day. Now I pledge --   
RIVERS: I pledge --  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I pledge --  
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: I pledge to look for and follow leads about slavery in my stories.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I pledge to continue to raise awareness about sex slavery and Boko Haram.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And I am happy to partner with CNN's Fly to Freedom campaign in an effort to adopt the freedom sale and to end forced labor.   
RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I will ask my government representative what are they doing to end slavery?   
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: Share your videos and photos using the hashtag #flytofreedom and be part of ending modern-day slavery. Let's show the world  that it's time for slavery to stop.       
SESAY: Join the campaign.   Well, still to come on NEWSROOM L.A., we'll tell you why ISIS fighters are  afraid of these women on the front lines in Syria. That story is just ahead.   
 SESAY: You are watching CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles. I'm Isha Sesay. The headlines this hour.    An explosion outside the subway station in Istanbul, Turkey, is under  investigation. At least five people were injured. Some reports say a bomb  detonated, but the city government says the cause is unknown. Turkey has been on  high alert since two suicide bombers killed more than 100 people in Ankara back  in October.    Britain seek to bolster its military campaign against ISIS. Parliament will hold  an all-day debate Wednesday and those on whether air raids in Syria. Prime  Minister David Cameron says the pair of boots poses an unprecedented and direct  threat to the U.K.    The U.S. is sending more special operations forces to fight ISIS in Iraq. It  will join about 50 commanders already authorized to fight ISIS in Syria. Defense  Secretary Ash Carter says they will be able to conduct raids, free hostages,  gather intelligence and capture ISIS leaders.    For more on all of this, let's bring in CNN military analyst, Lieutenant Colonel  Rick Francona. He joins us now live from La Quinta, California.    Colonel Francona, always good to have you on the show. So this decision to send  in these extra special forces operations, break it down for us. What this would  look like, how it would operate on the ground.   
LT. COL. RICK FRANCONA, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, this is different than what we've seen before. The 50 fighters, the 50 special operations forces that were  authorized to go into Syria were going to in as a train, and advise and assist  as part of a mission to create a better fighting force in Syria. An indigenous  fighting force.    What we're seeing now is an actual deployment of a U.S. combat unit. There is no  way to spin this other than a combat deployment of U.S. ground forces. This will  be boots on the ground. They're going to go in there and operate as an integral  organized fighting unit. This is not advisers. So this represents a shift in  U.S. policy and I think it's very significant. And I think a lot of people are  very concerned that this might be the first step toward a larger deployment.    If this isn't enough to turn the tide perhaps we're going to send more troops  and everybody is worried about what we call mission creep. So this is a real  shift on the part of the U.S.   
 SESAY: With this shift, and putting U.S. Special Forces on the ground in this capacity, it opens up the question of coordination with the Iraqi  government and with the Kurds. Does that give you any concern, or does that  cause you any concern?   
FRANCONA: Not too much concern. I think we have to get more closely aligned with the Kurds because the Kurds, right now, are the only effective fighting force on  the ground, over there, outside of the United States. What we see from the Iraqi  military, the Iraqi army, security forces and the police has been very, very  disappointing. Every time they go in to combat, they don't seem to be able to  get the job done. We don't see willingness on the Iraqi's to fight, and when  they do they just don't seem to be very capable. I'm not sure if it is the Abadi  Government that needs to change or the situation with the Iraqi military but  whatever it is, it is not working. I think that is the realization in Washington  that is driving these decisions. I think Secretary Carter and the President  himself are saying this is not working. We're going to have to put American  forces to do what the Iraqis can not do.   
SESAY: Colonel Francona, you and I have discussed in the past the intelligence gap that exists on the ground and its impact in the fight against ISIS. How far  does this move go toward bridging, or plugging, that hole, if you will?   
FRANCONA: Well, this is an attempt to do just that. You know, all of these operations that we're conducting, even the air campaign, but especially anything  going on the ground, is intelligence driven. If you don't know where they are,  you can't get them. If you don't know where leadership is, you can't attack  them. If you don't know what they are doing, it is very difficult to counter  their operations. So American forces on the ground -- and the Secretary is  right; they are trying to set up this cycle where they'll conduct operations.  Those operations will lead to intelligence. That intelligence will drive more  operations. This is very classic. This is what we normally do when you're  conducting a unilateral American operation, and I think the realization in  Washington is the Iraqis, the Syrian that we're training with, even the Kurds  don't have the capability to do this. This is going to rely on American  expertise.    I think, Isha, everyone is very concerned that we're going down this slippery  slope, to mission creep, to more U.S. involvement. This is how this beginning.   
SESAY: Yes, that is indeed the concern being echoed by many, that this is mission creep and how these things begin. Colonel Francona, it's always good to  get your insight and perspective. Thank you so much, once again.   
FRANCONA: Good to be with you.  
SESAY: Now, Kurdish fighters have been on the front lines in Syria trying to stop ISIS from advancing. Many are poorly equipped, but are determined to keep  fighting. CNN's Ben Wedeman met a female Kurdish unit and has their story.       
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: 20-year-old, Efelyn, loads rounds in to her heavy machine gun. She's a part of an all-female Kurdish unit  on the front lines taking on ISIS, here in Northeastern Syria. We met her and  her comrades at a forward position, south of Haseki. When I asked Evelyn if ISIS  ever gets near their position, she responds with a laugh. If they do, she says,  we won't leave one of them alive.    At the hands of what in the past was called the gentler sex, ISIS may have met  its match. They think they are fighting in the name of Islam says 21-year-old  Telhelden and they believe if someone from Daesh is killed by a girl, a Kurdish  girl, they won't go to heaven; so they are afraid of girls. She uses the word  "girl" but these are tough women; her name, by the way, means revenge.    At the moment this position on the front line is quiet, but the commanders say  it's just a matter of weeks before they intend to push forward against ISIS. A  few years ago, Lewand Rojava, traded in construction material, and now he leads  the so-called Syrian Democratic Forces, a coalition of Kurdish, Arab and Syrian  fighters.    The U.S. Defense Department announced on Tuesday it is deploying additional  forces, boosting the less than 50 President Obama authorized in October. That  should be welcome news to Rojava, who feels the assistance until now has been  modest. "The help we've received" he says "has been ammunition for Kalashnikovs,  for heavy machine guns, for mortars; but we have not received any weapons."    His forces, including these women fighters, recently drove ISIS out of        a nearby town of el Hool. For more than a year, ISIS held sway here. Signs of  its rule remain. In the police station an arrow points to the room where  complaints could be filed. In the small prison, pieces of foam were the only  comfort for the unlucky inmates. In front of a wall daubed with the word  "Islamic State", still stands the platform where ISIS publicly whipped  transgressors. The town's Arab inhabitants have yet to return. Some fled with  ISIS. Others, like Ali Matar and his extended family of 40, wanted nothing to do  with ISIS and ran away. They are eager to move back. Ghassan, a shepherd, led  under ISIS rule for over a year. His family fled but he stayed with his flock.  "You couldn't do anything," he tells me. "Smoking was forbidden. Women had to be  completely covered. You couldn't go anywhere without permission." He can smoke  again and hopes to soon be reunited with his family.    Ben Wedeman, CNN, in Eastern Syria.       
SESAY: Facebook's billionaire founder plans to donate most of the stock he owns in his company to charity. See what event inspired him to do just that.   
SESAY: The image of a special baby is filling up news feeds on social media. Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Pricilla Chan, are now the proud  parents of a baby girl named Max. She's the couple's first child, and was born  early last week. Well, in their social media post announcing her birth, the  couple said they planned to donate 99%        of their Facebook stock to charity during their lifetime. They say they want to  leave the world a better place for their daughter and all children. Their shares  are currently valued at $45 billion.    All right, well, just when you finally got "Gangnam Style" out of your head,  Korean Pop Star, PSY is back. This time PSY showing off what he says he got from  his daddy; and people seem to like it. His new music video already has close to  10 million views. Here's Jeanne Moos.       
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: He came riding that invisible horse onto the world stage three years ago. Now the question is can he lasso the success of  "Gangnam Style" with "Daddy?"    He's back, playing the part of baby and kid, daddy and grandpa all at once.  While media may say we're so sorry you had to see this horrifying, brilliant  video, full of coordinated flailing, what matters is whether young people flail  along with it.    He introduced himself back in 2012.       
PSY, RECORDING ARTIST, KOREA: I'm PSY from Korea; how are you?      
MOOS: Ended up being impersonated and playing himself on SNL. PSY taught the horsey dance to everyone from Britney Spears and Ellen, to the gang on "The  Today Show." Lassoing for dear life, PSY even handed the reins to the Secretary  General of the United Nations.       
PSY: You are so cool.   END VIDEO CLIP)   
MOOS: And then there's the psychology of PSY, who told reporters what a struggle it has been, how much pressure he is under to come up with a song that is equal  to his first megahit, practically mission impossible even for Daddy.       
MOOS: "Daddy", by the way, is part homage from the will.i.am song, "I Got It From My Mama". "Daddy" is racking up millions of views.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going to lie. I enjoyed it.  
MOOS: The favorite lyric? "You be my curry, I'll be your rice." PSY is hoping it's a dish the whole family will like.        Jeanne Moos        CNN, New York.       
SESAY: "You be my curry, I'll be your rice". Interesting; poetic. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM, live from Los Angeles. I'll be back at the top of the  hour with a look at the top stories; but first "World Sports" starts after the  break.       
