    
HIGHLIGHT: U.S. sending extra special forces operations to Iraq. President Obama saying Russia; Vladimir Putin expected to continue to go his own way in the war  on ISIS. Illinois attorney general wanted Chicago Police probe after death of  Laquan McDonald. GOP presidential frontrunner Donald Trump telling his rival to  bring it on. E-mail exchanges between Hillary Clinton and daughter on Benghazi  attacks released by U.S. State Department. U.S. Intelligence officials could  soon get unique insight into the man who leads ISIS after Lebanese government  released Abu Bakr Baghdadi's ex wife from custody, and she has an intimate  connection to the most wanted man in the world, and she has been released from a  Lebanese prison and now downplays her past with the ISIS leader, and Sujidah  Dulaimi was arrested in 2014 along with a young child, a young girl, her  daughter, believed to have been sired by Baghdadi was released with her, and one  Lebanese official tells CNN she was freed as part of a prisoner swap, traded for  Lebanese soldiers. This week, after taking office, the new mayor of Juneau,  Alaska, was found dead in his home, and police say Stephen Fisk was found with  injuries, and many people now wonder if he was assaulted. Facebook founder, Mark  Zuckerberg, and his wife, Pricilla, are now proud parents of their first child,  but the couple said they plan to donate 99 percent of their Facebook stock to  charity during their lifetime, and they say they want to leave the world a  better place for their daughter and all children, and their shares are currently  valued at $45 billion.     
 ISHA SESAY, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: This is CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles.    Ahead this hour, the United States is sending more special forces into Iraq to  help in the fight against ISIS.    Plus, Chicago's top cop is being forced to resign in the aftermath of the police  shooting of an African-American teenager.    And Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg pledges to give away billions of dollars of  shares. The big change that inspired this big announcement.    Hello, and welcome to our viewers in the United States and around the world. I  am Isha Sesay. NEWSROOM L.A. starts right now.    U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter says he's putting ISIS on notice. You never  know who is going to be coming through your window at night. He's sending more  U.S. special operations forces to Iraq to carry out raids and capture ISIS  leaders.    Chief U.S. security correspondent Jim Sciutto reports.       
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: After frequent White House denials that U.S. troops would face combat in Iraq and  Syria today the president is ordering dozens of U.S. Special Forces into combat  roles involving direct action against ISIS.   
ASH CARTER, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: These Special Operators will, over time, be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather intelligence, and capture ISIL  leaders.   
SCIUTTO: The new expeditionary force will number in the dozens. Those support forces will expand its total footprint to about 200.   
GEN. JOSEPH DUNFORD, CHAIRMAN, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF: This force and the operations this force will conduct will provide us additional intelligence that  will make our operations much more effective 
. SCIUTTO: Part of their mission,raids like this one in northern Iraq in October, a daring joint operations involving Kurdish commandos and the U.S. Army`s Delta Force to free these  ISIS-held prisoners.    Demonstrating the added danger of direct action, one Delta Force Operator,  Master Sergeant Joshua Wheeler, was killed.    This new deployment to Iraq is in addition to the 50 Special Forces the U.S. is  already deploying on the ground in Syria.   
CARTER: It puts everybody on notice in Syria that you don`t know at night who is going to be coming in the window. And that's the sensation that we want all of  ISIL's leadership and followers to have. So it is an important capability.   
SCIUTTO: The expanded U.S. combat role comes in the aftermath of Paris. And, as progress against ISIS on the battlefield has been halting.    While President Obama declared the group contained in an interview two weeks  ago.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: From the start, our goal has been first to contain and we have contained them.   
SCIUTTO: Today, however, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Dunford, appeared to contradict his commander-in-chief.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have we currently contained ISIL?  
DUNFORD: We have not contained ISIL.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have they been contained at any time since 2010?  
DUNFORD: Tactically in areas they have been. Strategically, they have spread since 2010.   
SCIUTTO: Just as the role of U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria has expanded, so have their numbers, rising from just a couple of hundred troops, a  little more than a year ago largely to protect the embassy in Baghdad, the  consulate in Irbil, now growing by a factor of more than 10 and coming up on the  limit of 3550 troops that the president said he's going to have to raise that  upper bar to accommodate this latest deployment and officials I speak to did not  believe this would be the final deployment to Iraq and Syria.    Jim Sciutto, CNN, Washington.       
SESAY: Well, the British parliament will start its debate in the next few hours on whether to launch airstrikes on ISIS in Syria. Thousands of protesters  marched outside the House of Commons Tuesday urging lawmakers to reject the  plan. Prime Minister David Cameron says ISIS poses an unprecedented and direct  threat to the UK.       
DAVID CAMERON, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: It is part of a broader strategy. It's about the politics and the diplomacy and the humanitarian aid all of which we  need to bring to bear to bring peace to Syria but to make sure we protect our  interests, our national interests fighting against this appalling terrorist  organization.       
SESAY: Well, currently, nine countries are part of the coalition launching airstrikes in Syria. Canada's new prime minister says his government is ending  airstrikes but will remain in the coalition. Russia is also conducting  airstrikes in Syria in support of the Assad regime. And Iran has sent more than  1,000 of its elite Revolutionary Guard forces to support Syrian army troops.    Well, CNN military analyst Lieutenant Colonel Rick Francona says the decision to  send more ops forces to Iraq is a significant change in strategy for the U.S. I  spoke with him a short time ago.       
 SESAY: Colonel Francona, always good to have you on the show. So this decision to send in these extra Special Forces Operations, break it down for us.  What this would look like, how it would operate on the ground.   
LT. COL. RICK FRANCONA, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, this is different than what we've seen before. The 50 fighters, the 50 Special Operations Forces that were  authorized to go into Syria were going to in as a train, and advise and assist  as part of a mission to create a better fighting force in Syria. An indigenous  fighting force.    What we're seeing now is an actual deployment of a U.S. combat unit. There is no  way to spin this other than a combat deployment of U.S. ground forces. This will  be boots on the ground. They're going to go in there and operate as an integral  organized fighting unit. This is not advisers. So this represents a shift in  U.S. policy and I think it's very significant. And I think a lot of people are  very concerned that this might be the first step toward a larger deployment.    If this isn't enough to turn the tide perhaps we're going to send more troops  and everybody is worried about what we call mission creep. So this is a real  shift on the part of the U.S.   
SESAY: With this shift and putting U.S. Special Forces on the ground in this capacity, it opens up the question of coordination with the Iraqi government and  with the Kurds. Does that give you any concern or does that cause you any  concern?   
FRANCONA: Not too much concern. I think we have to get more closely aligned with the Kurds because the Kurds right now are the only effective fighting force on  the ground over there outside of the United States. What we've seen from the  Iraqi military, the Iraqi army, the security forces and the police has been  very, very disappointing. Every time they go into combat, they don't seem to be  able to get the job done. We don't see a willingness on the Iraqis to fight and  when they do, they just don't seem to be very capable.    I'm not sure if it's the body government that needs to change or the situation  with the Iraqi military, but whatever it is, it is not working, and I think that  is the relation in Washington that's driving these decisions. I think Secretary  Carter and the president himself are saying this is not working, we're going to  have to put American forces to do what the Iraqis cannot do.   
SESAY: Rick Francona, you and I have discussed in the past the intelligence gap that exists on the ground and its impact in the fight against ISIS. How far does  this move go towards bridging or plugging that hole, if you will?   
FRANCONA: Well, this is an attempt to do just that. You know, all of these operations that we're conducting, even the air campaign, but especially anything  going on the ground is intelligence driven. If you don't know where they are,  you can't go get them. If you don't know where the leadership is, you can't  attack them. If you don't know what they're doing, it's very difficult to  counter their operations. So American forces on the ground and the secretary is  right, they're trying to set up this cycle where they'll conduct operations,  those operations will lead to intelligence. That intelligence will then drive  more operations.    This is very classic. This is what we normally do when you're conducting a  unilateral American operation. And I think the realization in Washington is the  Iraqis, the Syrian that we're training with, even the Kurds don't have the  capability to do this. This is going to rely on American expertise, and I think,  Isha, everybody is very concerned that we're going down that slippery slope to  mission creep, to more U.S. involvement. This is how this begins.   
SESAY: Yes. That is, indeed, the concern being echoed by many. That this is mission creep and how these things begin.    Colonel Francona, it's always good to get your insight and perspective. Thank  you so much once again.   
FRANCONA: Good to be with you.  
SESAY: Now U.S. President Barack Obama says he warned Russian leader Vladimir Putin against intervening in Syria. Mr. Obama is back in Washington after  meeting with President Putin at the climate change summit in Paris. But the U.S.  president admits he hasn't been successful in persuading Russia's leader to  change tactics so far.    Jim Acosta reports.       
JIM ACOSTA, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: They have met face-to-face twice in the last month. But they still don't see eye-to-eye. So  President Obama told reporters at a climate summit in Paris expect Russia's  Vladimir Putin to continue to go his own way in the war on ISIS. At least for  now 
. BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: On Mr. Putin, I don't expectthat you're going to see a 180 turn on their strategy over the next several weeks.   
ACOSTA: That means the U.S. and Russia will keep on bombing different targets, with Washington taking aim at ISIS and Moscow hitting U.S.- backed forces  fighting Putin's man in Syria, Bashar al-Assad.   
OBAMA: I don't think we should be under any illusions that somehow Russia starts hitting only ISIL targets. That's not happening now. It was never happening.  It's not going to be happening in the next several weeks.   
ACOSTA: Still, based on their conversations, the president is convinced Putin may be changing his calculus, away from supporting Assad to landing Russia in  another military quagmire.   
 OBAMA: With Afghanistan fresh in the memory, for him to simply get bogged down in an inconclusive and paralyzing civil conflict is not the outcome  that he's looking for.   
ACOSTA: But it's more complicated than that. Moscow is still outraged over Turkey's downing of a Russian warplane last week, angrily accusing Turkish  leaders of trying to protect a black market oil supply from ISIS terrorists.    Turkey's President Erdogan denied that, vowing he would resign if the claim is  proven true. And in a meeting with President Obama, he fired back that Russian  bombers are slaughtering ethnic Turkmen in Syria. Mr. Obama all but told both  sides to cut it out.   
OBAMA: We all have a common enemy, and that is ISIL, and I want to make sure that we focus on that threat.   
ACOSTA: With all of those problems, it's no wonder the president sounded more optimistic about addressing climate change after this week's summit in Paris.   
OBAMA: I think we're going to solve it.  
ACOSTA: With time running out on his presidency, Mr. Obama boldly predicted upcoming U.S. elections will make sure any climate agreement reached in France  lives on.   
OBAMA: Just with respect to my successor, let me first of all say that I'm anticipating a Democrat succeeding me. I'm confident in the wisdom of the  American people on that front.   
ACOSTA: A Russian news agency said Moscow had some evidence that Turkey was importing oil from ISIS across that porous Syria-Turkish border.  While the president did not weigh in on that exact claim, he said he did have  repeated conversations with Turkey's president about gaps at that border. It is  a constant source of frustration for the White House.    Jim Acosta, CNN, Paris.   
SESAY: Here in the United States, a jury is expected to be chosen Wednesday in Baltimore, Maryland, for the Freddie Gray case. He died in April after he was  shackled and put in a police van without a seatbelt following his arrest.  Officer William Porter is the first of six city officers to go on trial in the  case. He's charged with assault, reckless endangerment and manslaughter. He has  pleaded not guilty.    Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has asked his police superintendent to resign. Gary  McCarthy's dismissal comes after a video was released showing a white police  officers shooting and killing a black teenager. That video has led to days of  protest. The officer is now charged with first-degree murder. He was released on  bail Monday.       
MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL, CHICAGO: Superintendent Gary McCarthy has been an excellent leader of our police department over the past 4 1/2 years. His community  policing strategy has led to the lowest overall crime rate on record and his  efforts to remove guns from the street have yielded significant progress. But  Superintendent McCarthy knows that a police officer is only as effective as when  he has the trust of those he serves. After this weekend, after effectively  handling both the protests that followed the release of the McDonald video last  week and the arrest of Tyshawn's killers, Superintendent McCarthy and I had a  discussion on Sunday about the direction of the department and the undeniable  fact that the public trust and the leadership of the department has been shaken  and eroded.       
SESAY: Well, the Illinois attorney general now wants a federal investigation of the Chicago Police Department more than a year after the shooting.    CNN's Ed Lavandera shows us what's led up to this point.       
ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Six seconds. That was the time it took for Officer Jason Van Dyke to leave his vehicle and open fire on Laquan  McDonald, killing him on the spot. It is these six seconds that have rocked the  city of Chicago with protesters citing distrust and a lack of transparency  within the Chicago Police Department.    The dash cam video released last week by order of a judge revealed some  discrepancies regarding what happened the night McDonald was killed, including  the initial claim by police that the 17-year-old had lunged at officers.   
PAT CAMDEN, SPOKESMAN, CHICAGO FRATERNAL ORDER OF POLICE: Going at one of the officers. At that point, the officer defends himself.   
LAVANDERA: It's a claim the McDonald family attorney says the video does not support.   
MIKE ROBBINS, LAQUAN MCDONALD FAMILY ATTORNEY: The video clearly shows Laquan walking away. And he was not threatening anybody. And he is certainly didn't  lunge at the police officer. This was originally presented as an act of  self-defense.   
LAVANDERA: The Chicago Police Department initially claimed McDonald was shot in the chest. An autopsy later revealed he was shot a total of 16 times, nine of  which were in the back.    Another issue, there is an 86-minute gap in surveillance video from a local  Burger King. The police dash cam video shows McDonald running through the  restaurant's parking lot. The Burger King manager alleges the surveillance video  was reviewed by police, then they deleted it, erasing potentially pivotal  evidence.     The top prosecutor in Chicago says the video was not tampered with,  but the manager says in part, "I was just trying to help the police with their  investigation. I didn't know they were going to delete it."    Former Chicago police superintendent Garry McCarthy quickly swatted down those  allegations.   
GARRY MCCARTHY, FORMER SUPERINTENDENT, CHICAGO POLICE: Yes, and it's absolutely not true. And I think the state's attorney addressed that today. There were  apparently technical difficulties, but in no way, shape, or form is there any  evidence that anything was tampered with.   
LAVANDERA: But perhaps the darkest cloud of controversy continues to be how the Chicago Police Department seemingly went to great lengths and cost to try to  make sure the public would never see the video.    First there was the $5 million settlement paid to the family. Critics say that  was in part to keep the video from ever being released. Then the questions  emerging about why the Chicago Police Department continued to employ Officer Van  Dyke for a full year before pressing charges. Van Dyke had 20 complaints against  him, 10 of them for use of force.    The police only suspended him without pay the day before a judge's deadline for  the release of the dash cam video.   
ANITA ALVAREZ, COOK COUNTY STATE'S ATTORNEY: I felt compelled in the interest of public safety to announce these state charges today.   
LAVANDERA: For some in Chicago, that was too little too late.   Ed Lavandera, CNN, Chicago.       
SESAY: Time for a quick break. Did Muslims in New Jersey cheer 9/11? Next on CNN NEWSROOM live from L.A., New York's former mayor, Rudy Giuliani, speaks out on  Donald Trump's claim he saw it happen. Plus, newly released e-mails are shedding  more light on Hillary Clinton and the Benghazi attack. Find out what the former  U.S. secretary of state told her daughter. That's coming up next.       
 SESAY: Hello, everyone. U.S. Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump is facing criticism from fellow Republican Rudy Giuliani. The  former New York City Mayor says Trump is exaggerating claims he saw thousands of  Muslims cheering the September 11th attacks.    CNN's senior Washington correspondent Jeff Zeleny has more.       
JEFF ZELENY, CNN SENIOR WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Donald Trump is urging his rivals to bring it on.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: So far, now, let's see, Christie hasn't hit me yet. He will. At some point, Rubio's got to hit me.   
ZELENY: Bravado from the Republican frontrunner, exactly two months before the Iowa caucuses kick off the 2016 campaign.   
TRUMP: Even, I think, Cruz is going to have to hit me because, you know, he's a nice guy.   
ZELENY: After defending Trump for months, Texas Senator Ted Cruz is suddenly on the rise and may not be a nice guy in Trump's eyes much longer.   
TRUMP: He's been so supportive. But at some point, he's going to have to hit me, right? It's going to be a sad day, but we will hit back, I promise.   
ZELENY: Hitting back has become a Trump trademark. Few Republicans have escaped his buzz saw. Cruz is running neck and neck with Trump in one Iowa poll and  already making a bold prediction.   
SEN. TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Let me be very clear. I don't believe Donald Trump is going to be our nominee. I don't believe he's going to be our  president.   
ZELENY: Cruz appears to be taking a page from Trump's playbook, making attention-grabbing comments of his own. Asked about birth control in Iowa, Cruz  says he knows of no conservatives who flat-out oppose contraception. He said he  and his wife do not, sharing they were happy they had two girls, not 17.   
CRUZ: Last I checked, we don't have a rubber shortage in America. Like, look, when I was in college, we had a machine in the bathroom, you put 50 cents in and  voila.   
ZELENY: But many religious organizations are opposed to birth control. He also told radio host Hugh Hewitt Democrats commit more violent crimes in America.   
CRUZ: He's the simple and undeniable fact. The overwhelming majority of violent criminals are Democrats.   
ZELENY: And he took the media to task by reporting the suspect in the Colorado Planned Parenthood shooting reportedly said no more baby parts as he was  arrested.   
CRUZ: It's also reported that he was registered as independent and as a woman and a transgender leftist activist.   
ZELENY: Aides said Cruz was trying to make a point against rushing to judgment. But sorting out fact from fiction has become a full-time task in this  presidential race. Trump is still standing by his assertion that he saw  thousands of Muslims celebrating in New Jersey on 9/11, even though no one has  produced video evidence to support that claim.    On CNN's "NEW DAY," former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani said small pockets of  cheering took place in the city, but he accused Trump of exaggerating his  claims.   
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER MAYOR OF NEW YORK: Let him deal with it. Let him explain to people. Let him show the evidence of it. If it shows up, it will  corroborate him. If it doesn't show up, it's going to make him look really bad.   
ZELENY: But so far, nothing Donald Trump has said has slowed his rise or diminished him in the eyes of his supporters. And he's stepping up his  campaign. He's been in Georgia, New Hampshire, heading to Virginia, North  Carolina, even Iowa this week. A new aggressive phase as voters are only two  months away from starting off this long 2016 presidential campaign.    Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Waterville Valley, New Hampshire.       
SESAY: Well, the U.S. State Department has released some of Hillary Clinton's e-mails about the deadly consulate attack in Benghazi, Libya. In an e-mail to  her daughter, the Democratic presidential frontrunner blamed it on al Qaeda like  group.    Senior political correspondent Brianna Keilar explains.       
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: The e-mail was sent just hours after the attack in Benghazi, from Hillary Clinton to Diane  Reynolds, actually a pseudonym used by her daughter Chelsea, telling her two  officers were killed today in Benghazi by an al Qaeda-like group. In a public  statement that night, Clinton raised the possibility that inflammatory material  posted on the Internet, a reference to a video portraying the Muslim Prophet  Muhammad, was a precursor to the attack. Five days later, U.N. Ambassador Susan  Rice expanded on the inaccurate assessment when asked about reports that Libyan  officials had arrested suspects in the attacks.   
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: They're saying that some people involved were from outside the country, that there might have even been al Qaeda ties. What's the  latest information?   
 SUSAN RICE, U.N. AMBASSADOR: What this began as, was a spontaneous, not a premeditated response to what had transpired in Cairo.   
KEILAR: Republicans have seized upon Clinton's emails to claim she was covering up the cause of the Benghazi attack for political reasons, less than two months  from President Obama's re-election.   
REP. JIM JORDAN, OHIO: You tell the American people one thing, you tell your family an entirely different story. You can live with the protest about a video.  That won't hurt you. But a terrorist attack will.   
HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE: There is no doubt in my mind that we did the best we could with the information that we had at the time.   
KEILAR: The new e-mails also revealed behind-the-scenes insights into this moment from Clinton's 2013 testimony.   
CLINTON: Was it because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided they'd go kill some Americans? What difference at this  point does it make?   
KEILAR: And e-mails newly released by the State Department showed denial among top Clinton aides, that that controversial moment in her testimony was damaging.  As congratulatory messages from Clinton supporters poured in, longtime confidant  Mark Penn aired this concern, "I don't think the emotion in the hearing works to  your advantage. Looks more like they rattled you on something no one outside the  crazy right blamed you for anyway." But a top aide dismissed the assessment,  e-mailing the secretary, "Give me a break, you did not look rattled, you looked  real. There's a difference. A big one."    Brianna Keilar, CNN, Washington.       
SESAY: Well, a woman who is married to one of the most wanted men in the world is now out of prison. You'll hear what officials could find out from the ex-wife  of ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.   
 SESAY: You are watching CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles. I'm Isha Sesay.    The headlines this hour -- Chicago's mayor has forced his police superintendent  to resign. Gary McCarthy's dismissal follows the release of a video showing a  white officer shoot ago black teenager 16 times. That video led to protesters to  accuse the city of trying to cover it up.    A jury could be seated Wednesday in Baltimore, Maryland, for the first police  officer on trial in Freddie gray's death. Gray died in August after he was  shackled and pus in a police van without a seat belt. Six officers are charged  in the case and will be tried separately.    The U.S. military is strengthening its presence on the ground in Iraq. Defense  Secretary Ash Carter is sending Special Operations forces to help in the fight  against ISIS. He says they will be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather  intelligence and capture ISIS leaders.    More U.S. Intelligence officials could soon get unique insight into the man who  leads ISIS. The Lebanese government has just released Abu Bakr Baghdadi's ex  wife from custody.    Brian Todd has more on what information she has to share on the mysterious ISIS  leader.       
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: She has an intimate connection to the most wanted man in the world. Sujidah Dulaimi, the ex-wife of Abu Bakr al  Baghdadi, has just been released from a Lebanese prison and now downplays her  past with the ISIS leader.   
SUJIDAH DULAIMI, EX WIFE OF ABU BAKR AL BAGHDADI: We divorced six or seven years ago. He wasn't al Baghdadi or anything.   
TODD: This is believed to be footage of Dulaimi who was arrested in 2014 along with a young child. A Lebanese security source says a young girl, her daughter,  believed to have been sired by Baghdadi was released with her. One Lebanese  official tells CNN she was freed as part of a prisoner swap, traded for Lebanese  soldiers held by the al Nusra Front.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She was released because I think, A, her intelligence value to the Lebanese security forces ran out. She revealed all she could reveal or  that they could get out of her and they ran out of other options to retrieve the  soldiers.   
TODD: Dulaimi's marriage reportedly lasted only a few months. The ISIS leader's current personal life is a mystery. The Iraqi intelligence has said he has two  wives.    U.S. Intelligence officials won't comment on whether they'll want to question  her or on any information Dulaimi might have given to the Lebanese.    But a former CIA officer we spoke to says U.S. Officials likely will want access  to her. Dulaimi could provide U.S. Intelligence with cell phone numbers,  metadata, and even if it's dated, it could still help target the ISIS leader.  Given his obsession with secrecy, any insight Dulaimi could give on him could be  critical.   
: That far removed, could she say anything useful now?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To be honest, I think the most, the biggest thing she could have is relationships with people, who he trusts, whose circles he moves around  with, which areas he feels secure in.   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: Some of the questions that could be asked of her include to what degree does al Baghdadi is an object session with  the apocalypse, with the end of days? Is he driven by that? Is he going to go  for broke? All out in his confrontation with the West?   
TODD: But given al Dulaimi's current loyalties, not clear if she would have given the Lebanese any useful information. A Lebanese security source says her  current husband is involved with an al Qaeda affiliate the al Nusra Front and  she has a brother who is a senior official within the group.    Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.       
SESAY: The relatives of terrorists do not always share a violent ideology. When Zak Ebrahim was just a boy, his father plotted the 1993 plotting of the World  Trade Center. Now Zak dedicates his life to a message of peace and tolerance. I  spoke with him a short time ago.       
SESAY: Zak Ebrahim, thank you so much for joining us.   Zak, your father was convicted of the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center as  well as a number of other charges. How did he become radicalized?   
ZAK EBRAHIM, SON OF CONVICTED TERRORIST: Well, you know, I can only look back and try to understand the path that he took that ultimately led him to make  these terrible decisions. He had some experiences when he came to the United  States that I think incorrectly made him jaded toward the West. And it was also  a time when he began interacting with men. For example, one of the most  influential figures in the world for raising funds and finding volunteer efforts  at the time for the war in the Soviet Union. So I think it was a combination of  some really negative experiences he had here that he blamed on the United  States. As well as his interaction with men like that.   
 SESAY: And before he was sent to prison, how exposed were you to his dogma, if you will, his world view?   
EBRAHIM: Sure. Well, he wasn't radicalized my entire life. It really wasn't until a few years before he went to prison that even I, as a young child,  noticed a change in him. You know, we spent weekends going to the shooting range  with many of the men that would ultimately be responding to the World Trade  Center. I am supposed to the inside for which he preached. I was isolated from  the people and taught to fear anyone who did not fall into a very specific  category of what it means to be a Muslim.   
SESAY: What impact did this ideology, these teachings, have on you?  
EBRAHIM: Well, to put it simply, I was a bigot. I believed that Muslims and jus were natural enemies. I believed that all gay people were evil and were trying  to make me evil so I would go to hell. It really wasn't until I was holder and I  began interacting with people. And you know, initially, I felt a sense of pride,  but it was the first time in my life that I thought to myself, perhaps what I  had been taught wasn't true. And ultimately, through years, I have come to  realize it is isolation that is the most important ingredient in radicalizing  someone and that is why it is so important that communities come together to  interact with one another.   
SESAY: And I want to talk more about that, what it is that leads to young Muslim men living in Europe being radicalized. How is ISIS able to do this? You  mentioned one element, you said isolation.   
EBRAHIM: True. Unfortunately, I think there are many motivating factors and, you know, not any one person doesn't fit the entire mold for, you know, why someone  can become radicalized. I think, obviously, there are influences in some of  these men's lives. Ultimately, they are seeking what we all seek, which is  influences in life. Unfortunately, the influences they have around them direct  them towards a path in violence in the name of ideology that the vast majority  of Muslims in the world do not share.   
SESAY: And how do you ultimately combat the terrorism and the ideology? What in your view is an effective path?   
EBRAHIM: Well, I think that as an individual, your goal should be to treat everyone, regardless of their race, religion, gender, orientation the same way  been you judge someone based on their character. I can as far as the role of  government, you know, our governments and by our governments I mean the Western  governments, we need to take a very hard look at the relationships that they  have with governments like Egypt, like Saudi Arabia. Countries that have, you  know, frankly, tortured and killed their only people for decades and yet we're  very close allies to western governments. You know, I think there is a great  deal of resentment that comes from the fact that we supply weapons to these  sorts of countries and the citizens of those nations cannot help themselves. And  often our freedom can be to the detriment of the citizens of places like Egypt  and Saudi Arabia. So I think it's very important that citizens in the West  recognize the role that their government plays in the Middle East and, as well,  it's very important that, you know, it is not a Muslim's responsibility to make  people understand that they are not racist. It is our responsibility as human  beings to recognize that just because someone is a Muslim or a Christian or what  have you, that they are not a racist. So it really comes down to the individual  making conscious efforts throughout their life to try to break down the  stereotypes that we all share.   
 SESAY: Zak, it's a pleasure speaking to you. And thank you for the work that you're doing. It's extremely important. So thank you.   
EBRAHIM: It's a privilege. Thank you.      
SESAY: Time for a quick break. There's a mystery hanging over Juneau, Alaska. Hear what people in the state's capital are saying after the new mayor was found  dead in his home.   
SESAY: This week, after taking office, the new mayor of Juneau, Alaska, was found dead in his home. Police say Stephen Fisk was found with injuries, and  many people now wonder if he was assaulted.    CNN's Randi Kaye reports on the mysterious death.       
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: About 3:30 in the afternoon, the 911 call came in. Mayor Stephen Greg Fisk of Juneau, Alaska, was dead.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: At about 3:34, we've received a 911 call from a man and there was someone who appeared to be deceased inside. Officers were on scene in  about four minutes.   
KAYE: Mysterious deaths like this one, let alone, the mayor, rarely occurred in this remote capital city of 32,000, a community tucked away on Alaska's  panhandle, often reached by boat and seaplane.    The strange circumstances have many in town speculating about what happened. The  detectives here are, for now, stumped.    The mayor's son had gone to check on him Monday afternoon after getting word  that others in town were having trouble reaching him. After he looked inside the  home where his father lived alone, neighbors say the son could be heard  shouting. That's when he called 911. Others rushed to the scene, but the mayor  was already dead.   
: Right now, there are more questions than answers. Juneau police say they found no sign of forced entry and they've concluded that Mayor  Fisk did not commit suicide. So what happened? Some are suggesting that the  mayor was assaulted. The police are playing that down, though the chief did tell  the Juneau "Empire" newspaper that assault is one of the possibilities out  there, but that it could have also been a fall or something else.   
: Meanwhile, Juneau's deputy mayor will take over his duties. She was a long time friend of Greg Fisk, even taught his son when he was in the  sixth grade 
. MARY BECKER, JUNEAU DEPUTY MAYOR: My husband and I are devastated.He was a wonderful person and a friend and from the calls I've been receiving tonight, I'm not the only one who has felt that he is a wonderful person and a  good friend to Juneau.   
KAYE: A neighbor told us Fisk was active and in good shape. He hiked and swam often. She said he had a great smile and was a great guy.    Greg Fisk was elected mayor just about two months ago. He won with 66 percent of  the vote over the incumbent mayor after running a very positive campaign. He was  looking forward to diversifying Juneau's economy and improving the housing  market and fixing a tight budget. But all of that is on hold as mystery now  hangs over this town.   
BECKER: It's just so devastating to have this happen. It's basically unbelievable.   
KAYE: Randi Kaye, CNN, New York.      
SESAY: Facebook's billionaire founder plans to donate most of the stock he owns in his company to charity. See what event inspired him to do that.       
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, AMS METEOROLOGIST: A couple of days to fill your Advent calendar. Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri here for "Weather Watch."           
 SESAY: The image of a special baby is filling news feeds on social media. Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and his wife, Priscilla, are now proud  parents of a baby girl, their first child, born early last week. The couple said  they plan to donate 99 percent of their Facebook stock to charity during their  lifetime. They say they want to leave the world a better place for their  daughter and all children. Their shares are currently valued at $45 billion.  Wow.    Well, joining me to discuss Zuckerberg's generous donation is Kim Lachance  Shandrow, a senior writer at entrepreneur.com, and often writes about technology  and social media issues.    Kim, thank you so much for joining us.    This donation, this pledge by the Zuckerbergs is in line to be among the world's  largest. Put this in context for us. KIM LACHANCE SHANDROW, SENIOR WRITER, 
ENTREPRENEUR.COM: Well, I think what they're looking to do is to inspire other young entrepreneurs, but particularly the sort of elites in silicone valley that  are in a position to give to the level that they have. I think they're making a  statement. They're very young. Zuckerberg is 31. His wife is 30 and they're  looking to basically show the world that you can make a statement and give at a  scale that hasn't really been seen before with people this young. So they're  looking to inspire a future generation.   
SESAY: And this is the perspective that he was a member of the Gates and Buffetts giving pledge where he said he would give most of his money but now  they've stepped it up to this 99 percent of their shares. I think it is  interesting in the way they've chosen to distribute their money through their  own personal foundation. What do you make of that?   
LACHANCE SHANDROW: Well, actually, they have more control over how the money is disbursed in that case. It's not a nonprofit. So what they can do is they can do  investments with companies. They can lobby this way with legislation and they  can also basically disperse it in a way that will let them impact public policy.  So they have more control and they have more control over how often they give.  So they're looking to do 10, 25 and 100 year increments.   
SESAY: Very interesting. I have to say, when I went online and looked at the reaction to the announcement, there is some cynicism in some quarters. You know,  surrounding the fact that when rich people give money to charity, the point  cannot be ignored that they also benefit by the tax deductions.   
LACHANCE SHANDROW: Yes, absolutely. They are going to be saving a lot of money in taxes by doing this. And I think they also took advantage of it being Tuesday  and of a press moment. They were able to sort of polish their brand, but it was  also a little bit -- some of the timing as one of my colleagues pointed out  today in entrepreneur.com, the timing was a little bit -- it left a little bit  of a bad taste in several people's mouths today because they showed their  daughter so publicly, max, born a week ago and the first image of her out there  in the world is essentially at the top of what amounted to a press release about  the Zuckerberg Foundation. So it was odd in how it came out.   
SESAY: You mentioned the personal brand. The personal brand is boosted by acts of philanthropy. What about the business side of things? Is there a boost to  business? Does it burnish the Facebook brand and anyone else at that level who  has a business and gives at this level?   
LACHANCE SHANDROW: I think definitely. I think, you know, social good is an important -- it's important to show the world that you care for others. It's  also very convenient, though, to spread experience access across the globe,  which has been something that Zuckerberg has been championing for so long. So I  think this makes -- it extends his business brand, but I think it might have  turned off some of the users in the way this all came to light today 
. SESAY: Onelast question to you, as someone who watches the scene, it seems to be, you know, quite commonplace, so it's happening with some regularity, if you will.  That people or wealthy people are giving big. Let's just put it that way.   
LACHANCE SHANDROW: Absolutely.  
SESAY: Why is that? What's going on? How do you read the times we're living in?  
 LACHANCE SHANDROW: Well, sometimes I feel it might look on the outside like they're trying to outdo each other, we have a lot of money and they  lived big. So I think there's a lot of sincerity behind Zuckerberg and his wife,  Priscilla. I think being bill gates is one of his mentors, I think he was  inspired by him. I think they're close with the gates. I think this is extending  that theme out to other people and letting them know that, yes, if you have the  means, you should give. But it certainly doesn't hurt that you're going to get a  tax break at the same time, and lest we should forget that.   
SESAY: Lest we should forget that.   Kim Lachance Shandrow, thank you for coming in. Thank you.   
LACHANCE SHANDROW: Thank you, Isha. It's been great.  
SESAY: And you are watching CNN NEWSROOM live from Los Angeles. I'm Isha Sesay.   For our viewers in the U.S., "Amanpour" is next.    Everyone else, the news continues with Rosemary Church right after this.               
