    
HIGHLIGHT: The heat is on in Paris as global leaders gather in search of consensus of climate change; Moscow has imposed economic sanctions in reaction  to Turkey's downing of a Russian warplane last week; U.S. Republican  presidential candidate Ben Carson visits refugees in Jordan on Saturday; The  aunt of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi lives in Canada, where the extended family  will now be granted asylum; Emotional tributes for the Colorado police officer  killed in the line of duty; A woman held hostage at the Planned Parenthood  clinic tells what she did to survive as bullets flew through the building. One  climate scientist has been running for months ahead of the conference all the  way from Norway to Paris and it's all to raise awareness for how climate change  has affected the Arctic; In the United States ice storms continue across the  Central Plains and temperatures are expected to remain below freezing through  and until Sunday morning; On Saturday demonstrators gathered near Downing Street  in London to protest the proposal by British prime minister David Cameron for  the U.K. to join coalition airstrikes on ISIS targets on Syria; On the ground in  CAR, the pope will meet with Muslim and Christian leaders, some of those who  have been displaced by violence; Another challenging issue for Pope Francis is  the spread of HIV and the difficulties in containing the virus under Catholic  teachings on birth control; A well-known American photographer has been  capturing life in Cuba for over 20 years             
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR: The heat is on in Paris as global leaders gather in search of consensus of climate change and French officials go  to extreme lengths to guarantee their safety.    Similar security concerns in the Central African Republic as Pope Francis  touches down with a message of peace for a country divided.    Plus:       
CHRISTINE FOWLER BINDER, FORMER ICE SKATING PARTNER: Garrett is or was the most selfless person I knew. Always there as kind of my confidant, my brother. He put  up with me.       
KINKADE: Emotional tributes for the Colorado police officer killed in the line of duty.    Welcome to our viewers in the U.S. and around the world. I'm Lynda Kinkade and  this is CNN NEWSROOM.       
KINKADE: World leaders will begin to arrive in Paris today ahead of the COP 21 conference. Protesters have taken to the street across the world to demand  action on climate change ahead of the international summit, which begins on  Monday.       
KINKADE: In Indonesia, protesters gathered at the city center, urging the government to reduce dependency on fossil fuels. Protests have been  also seen across Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland and the Philippines; 24  Greenpeace activists were placed under house arrest in Paris, suspected of  planning violent demonstrations; 120,000 police and soldiers will provide  security for the event.    Joining me now is CNN correspondent Phil Black live from Paris.    Phil, we've seen so many demonstrations right across the world, people power  calling for action on climate change.    But where you are in Paris due to security concerns, demonstrations were  cancelled.   
PHIL BLACK, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Lynda, it was to be the king of demonstrations here. This was to be the epicenter of that global popular  movement that you've just been talking about, with people around the world but  especially here, calling for a strong response, strong action over the coming  two weeks during these climate talks.    Organizers had hoped for hundreds of thousands of people to take to the streets  here but it was not to be.    Paris, after those terrorists attacks, has defiantly said we'll continue with  the business end of the climate talks, we'll host the talks, we'll step up the  security necessary to protect 147 heads of state as well as the tens of  thousands of other people that are involved in the event itself.    But there's been a cost to that. They've put restrictions on the numbers of  people that can gather in public. So that's why no big demonstration. That's why  the people of Paris aren't able to contribute in a more festive type of way, put  pressure upon world leaders and take part in this, in the way that they had  hoped.    Now world leaders, many activists hoped that the restrnyaevents in Paris,  that the horrible terror events two weeks ago, will lead to a feeling here among  the leaders, among the negotiators that could see greater progress.    So in a sense holding these talks is an act of defiance against the people who  took those lives here but securing a strong result at the end of it, a strong,  ambitious climate deal, well, many believe that would be the ultimate way to  refute those involved in the terrorist attacks here -- Lynda.   
KINKADE: And as you mentioned 147 heads of state plus we know 40,000 people are expected to attend the event and this all comes after the Paris attacks, the  terror attacks.    How are authorities dealing with security?   
BLACK: Massive numbers mostly. There were supposed to be about 1,500 people guarding the site of the talks itself post those terrorist attacks, where it's  been almost doubled, it's basically doubled in size in terms of the number of  police and security forces you'll see there, in addition to the enormous  security presence across the country.    Some 120,000 police, soldiers and other security forces have France on lockdown.  So this really huge international event is taking place in a country that was  already on security lockdown, at an extraordinarily high state of readiness --  Lynda.   
KINKADE: OK, Phil Black, thanks for staying across it all for us in Paris. We will talk to you very soon.    And earlier I spoke with Ruth Davis, a senior policy adviser for Greenpeace  International. She says the goals of the conference are very clear.       
RUTH DAVIS, SENIOR POLICY ADVISER, GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL: I think there were three main themes to this that we need to think about. There's the destination,  where are we actually going and what are we trying to achieve?    From our perspective in civil society, it is really important that where we are  going is towards a completely clean energy future. So that's one critical part  of the conversation.       
DAVIS: A second part is what's the map or the process that we will use to get there?    It is really important that we don't see this as just ending in Paris because  the offers we have on the table now, whilst they're important, are not enough to  keep us below 2 degrees or 1.5 degrees temperature wise.    So it's really important that countries are able to come back on a five-year  cycle and improve their levels of ambition.    And the third thing is all about the resources that we will need to get us  there. This is going to be a universal agreement.    And universal participation means that we have to have universal access to  resources so that countries, poorer countries who are facing development  challenges, are able to meet those with the solidarity of other countries around  them.       
KINKADE: And a scientist has been running from Norway to the climate summit in Paris. He wants to raise awareness about global warming. You'll hear from him  and his story later this hour.    Well, Pope Francis has left Uganda and has landed in the Central African  Republic. He's there during a very tumultuous time. The country has been plagued  by sectarian violence between Christians and Muslims and part of the pope's  mission will be to ease tensions between the two groups. Now to Southeastern  Turkey, where a prominent pro-Kurdish lawyer was killed on Saturday. We want to  warn you the video you see you may find disturbing.       
KINKADE: Tahir Elci was shot when gunfire broke out between security forces and PKK militants during a news conference. Two Turkish police  officers were also killed and another was wounded.    Meantime, tensions are rising between Turkey and Russia. Moscow has imposed  economic sanctions in relation -- in reaction to Turkey's downing of a Russian  warplane last week.    The measures curtail travel between the two countries and also blocks certain  Turkish imports into Russia. CNN's Ian Lee is in Istanbul, Turkey.    And, Ian, you've got more information about the downing of this jet.   
IAN LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right. We're hearing that the body of the pilot, the one who was killed in Syria, has been handed over to Turkish  officials. Religious men of the orthodox faith were there to receive the body,  prepare the body and then eventually the Turks will hand it over to the  Russians.    This has been something that the Russians have been calling for, something that  they have been demanding and late last night that body was handed over to the  Turks.   
KINKADE: Looking, of course, at fallout from this, Turkey's president will not apologize and, incredibly, he wants Vladimir Putin to apologize. That's not  happening either, so talk to us about the sanctions.   
LEE: Yes. These sanctions really, it seems at this point, hinge on an apology, at least from Erdogan -- an apology to Putin. Again, as you said, Erdogan wants  the apology himself from Putin.    But these sanctions are very real. They hit the Turkish economy in several ways.  One, they take away this visa-free transit. So Turkish business men, Russian  business men, will make it a lot more difficult for them to do business in each  other's countries.    Also starting at the beginning of the year, Turks will not be able to get visas  to work inside Russia. But probably one of the most damaging parts of the  sanction is stopping sending tourists to Turkey.    Russian tourists spend about $4 billion a year in tourism here in Turkey so that  really has quite the impact.    Also, they are looking into possibly going after gas that goes from Russia to  Turkey. About 60 percent of their gas they get from Russia.    Also there's a multi-billion dollar nuclear power plant that also, the fate is  questionable and really, Lynda, all this, again, just hinges on, it seems like,  an apology from Erdogan.    But, you know, both men don't seem like they are willing to apologize, both men  say they are in the right.   
KINKADE: OK. This will continue, no doubt. Ian Lee in Istanbul, Turkey, thank you very much.    U.S. Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson is calling the Syrian refugee  crisis "a great human tragedy." That comes after visiting with refugees in  Jordan on Saturday.    Carson admits it's a situation that needs to be fixed but he doesn't believe the  U.S. is the country to do it. CNN correspondent Oren Liebermann joins us now  from Amman, Jordan, with the latest.    And it seems that this was a very secretive trip.    What was Ben Carson hoping to achieve?   
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, it was very secretive. It came together quite quietly and we weren't allowed into the refugee camp while Carson  was there but this could be an attempt by Carson to boost his foreign policy --       
LIEBERMANN: -- and national security credentials, two areas he's seen as being weak compared to other Republican presidential candidates and that at a time  when the debates, when the big issues are foreign policy and national security,  especially as the Syrian refugee crisis continues.    And the question remains should the U.S. take in more or should the U.S. take in  any Syrian refugees?    Most, if not all of the Republican candidates, including Carson, has said no but  he did say in a statement released after his visit to two Syrian refugee camps  here in Jordan that the U.S. taking in 25,000 refugees isn't enough. But he  words his statement very carefully. He doesn't say the U.S. should take in more  Syrian refugees. It seems he's saying that the U.S. should help other countries  such as Jordan taking in those refugees.    Now Carson did also say that he'll release more of his foreign policy plan and  his plan for the Syrian refugees in the coming days and then he goes on to blame  the refugee crisis, at least in part, on the Obama and Clinton administrations  -- Lynda.   
KINKADE: And of course, Oren, Ben Carson has made some very controversial comments about refugees in the past, in particular in comparing Syrian refugees  to rabid dogs.    Do you think he's had a change of heart?   
LIEBERMANN: From the statement he released, it certainly seems like it. Of course that will depend even more upon what his plan is for the Syrian refugee  crisis. But it seems from this statement that this has had a very real and very  profound impact on him as he visited these two refugee camps, the Azraq refugee  camp, where we were yesterday, and the Zaatari refugee camp, the larger refugee  camp in Northern Jordan.    But it will come down to what his plan is. He hasn't released too much about it,  only saying the U.S. needs in some way to do more, but this could very much be  Carson trying to backtrack or trying to cover that comparison he made between  some Syrian refugees, calling them or comparing them to rabid dogs.    But it will depend on what that plan is and how and when he lays it out.   
KINKADE: Yes, we'll look forward to seeing that in detail.   Oren Liebermann, thank you very much for joining us.    Now to a story that brought worldwide attention to Europe's migrant crisis. You  may remember the little 2-year-old boy who drowned off the coast of Turkey in  September along with his mother and brother. A photograph of his body, washed  ashore, causing global outrage. The world came to know him as Aylan. Now his  aunt says the pronunciation and spelling came from Turkish officials. His given  name is Alan, spelled differently. His aunt lives in Canada where the extended  family will now be granted asylum. CNN spoke with CNN's -- she spoke, sorry,  with CNN's Paula Newton.       
TIMA KURDI, ALAN'S AUNT: So far what I know, the application from Canada from here, it's been approved and is being sent to Ankara in Turkey. And it's been in  the process.    And they did like the regular medical exam, both the family in Turkey and my  brother in Germany. And they are going through the security check and all that.  So, so far I'm waiting for either an email or a phone call to tell me on the  date when they are arriving. So I'm hoping before Christmas but I'm not sure at  this moment.   
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We've just had a very dramatic couple of weeks, three weeks really, when you count the bombings in Lebanon and Beirut and those  terrible attacks in Paris. You know, Tima, it's turned some people, especially  in the United States and Europe, against accepting refugees. They think it's too  much of a security risk.    What would you tell them, people who are afraid to grant asylum to thousands of  refugees?   
KURDI: First of all, I don't blame them. They have the right to concern about security.    I always say, take your time. Make sure you do the security check. And we don't  want any terrorists to come to any country. But, please, open your heart and  your arms and welcome those desperate refugees. Those refugees, they fleed  from the rubble, from ISIS. It doesn't mean they are a terrorist.   
NEWTON: Yes and it is difficult for people to try and reconcile the fear, the terror that these refugees are running from and then perhaps they feel risking  the national security.    Tima, I can't let you go without asking you how Alan's father is right now,  where is he?    Do you have any hopes that he may be able to come to Canada?   
KURDI: Abdullah, it's -- he is in Kurdistan, Irbil. What he's doing, volunteer work in a refugee camp to help -- helping refugees' children with their needs.  And he is hoping to opening the charity under --       
KURDI: -- his son's name, also to help the refugee children. And -- but so far he refuse -- he doesn't want to come to Canada or anywhere.       
KINKADE: That was Tima Kurdi, aunt of Alan Kurdi, the 2-year-old boy who drowned off the coast of Turkey in September. And she was speaking with CNN's Paula  Newton.    Still to come, new details about the gunman in the mass shooting at a Colorado  women's clinic. How the comments of the suspected gunman reportedly made to  investigators may reveal a possible motive for the attack.    Plus a woman held hostage at the clinic tells CNN what she did to survive as the  bullets flew through the building.           
KINKADE: Welcome back.   Now to the latest in a shooting at a Planned Parenthood women's clinic in the  U.S. A law enforcement official tells CNN the suspected gunman mentioned "baby  parts" to investigators.    He also reportedly expressed anti-abortion and anti-government views in police  interviews following his arrest. Planned Parenthood faced backlash earlier this  year after an anti-abortion group released videos alleging that the organization  was selling fetal organs. Critics have discredited the videos, calling them  heavily edited and misleading.    We're also learning more about the police officer killed in Friday's attack.  People in Colorado Springs held a vigil on Saturday for Officer Garrett Swasey.  Here's Sara Ganim.           
SARA GANIM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Officer Garrett Swasey was a loving father of two, a former championship ice skater and a leader in his church. He  was also a devoted police officer, killed Friday in the line of duty when a man  opened fire at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The shooter is shooting at officers now.  
GANIM: Forty-four-year-old Swasey was an officer for the University of Colorado, Colorado Springs campus. He was on duty Friday when he heard the  call of shots fired and rushed to the scene.   
KURT AICHELE, CO-PASTOR, HOPE CHAPEL: I've known him for about 10 years and throughout that entire time, watched him faithfully serve others and place  others before himself in nearly every situation.   
GANIM: Kurt Aichele is a pastor with Swasey at his church was there when Swasey's wife had to tell their two young children what happened to their  dad.   
AICHELE: The cries and the sobs of her children learning that their daddy was --      
AICHELE: -- never returning is something that will probably be etched in my mind for the rest of my life.   
GANIM: Swasey was born in Melrose, Massachusetts, a graduate of Melrose High School, the mayor there saying, "As a class of 1989 graduate, I  remember him to be a kind and caring young man with many friends dedicated to  his skating career and excelling at all areas."    A six-year veteran of the police force, law enforcement was his second career,  after retiring from figure skating. He competed in the 1995 national  championships and won a junior national title in 1992 in Orlando.   
CHRISTINE FOWLER BINDER, FORMER ICE SKATING PARTNER: Garrett is or was the most selfless person I knew. Always there as kind of my confidant, my brother. He put  up with me.   
GANIM: His skating partner, Christine Fowler Binder, talked to Swasey's mother on the phone.   
BINDER: She just wanted me to say that, to remind everyone that, you know, Garrett died in the line of duty, protecting everyone in our country, and that  there's no time that he ever would not have done that 
. GANIM: In the early1990s, Swasey moved to Colorado Springs to train at the Olympic Training Center. Friends at the church where he led groups and played guitar say he defined  himself through his faith.   
SCOTT DANTENVILLE, CO-PASTOR: Here's a man who stands on principle, loves Christ, and obviously, you know, he might not be in alignment with the abortion  industry but he would be willing to go in and lay down his life for those  people.   
GANIM: Sara Ganim, CNN, New York.      
KINKADE: CNN's Dan Simon spoke with a woman who was held hostage inside he clinic. She said she and her boyfriend were there for an ultrasound when the  gunman opened fire. At the time of the interview, she had not heard from him.       
KENTANYA CRAION, HELD HOSTAGE INSIDE COLORADO CLINIC: The last thing I recall was he was paying for the service. His card was declined. And from there he went  inside. And within 25 seconds I just heard gunshots.   
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: When you saw the gunman outside.  
CRAION: Yes.  
SIMON: What did he look like?  
CRAION: Like he had no remorse. And this was just a game to him.  
SIMON: Do you immediately recognize those as gunshots?  
CRAION: No, I didn't. It tool someone to tell me to get down, you know, the various gunshots.    Even within, I couldn't register because it felt so surreal. And at that point,  when I had heard the gunshots, I was able to make out a picture of what was  going on because I saw the gunman, and I saw him shooting. And once I realized  that this is really happening, is when I flee the scene and went in the back  rooms.   
SIMON: So you saw him outside?  
CRAION: Yes.  
SIMON: OK.   As you see him, you hear the gunshots and realize what's going on?   
CRAION: Exactly.  
SIMON: What are you thinking in your mind?  
CRAION: Where's my boyfriend?   What's going on?    This can't be happening. It felt like a dream. Didn't feel real.   
SIMON: And then you go into a back room?  
CRAION: Yes. So I ran down the hall. I try to open one door, it waslocked. I opened another door, and there was two people there. One was a nurse. And one  was an actual patient.    And from there, they had no idea what was going on. So I immediately pushed them  in the door. Shut the door. And I let them know there was a gunman, you know,  armed. Once they realized the gunshots is when we grabbed the table and placed  it against the door because we don't have a lock on the door.    Time went by, I wasn't hearing much. Around 2:00, I don't know if it was before,  you know, the armed car drove into Planned Parenthood or after. It was one of  the two.    But right after that had happened, you hear gunshots. And the gunshots weren't  like the ones I heard prior. Because the ones I heard prior were clearly, you  know, somewhere outside. It wasn't near, you could tell. It was not in the  building. But when I heard around 2:00 the second gunshots, you could clearly  tell it was in the building. It was near, it was close.    One of the ladies beside me started screaming, I had to tell her to remain calm,  everything's fine. Because like I said the gunshots were there as clear as day.  We can hear it. We actually had a bullet go through our wall. It came through  one and went through the other. And you could see the gun powder and smell it.  And it was just frightening at that point. We all just wanted to get out.    About, I would say 30, 45 minutes later, a police officer had contacted one of  us and he let us know that he is coming. They are coming to get us. He wanted to  know what end of Planned Parenthood we were at and he explained the procedures  on how we would it is him.    And then after that phone call, maybe 20, 15 minutes after that, you hear people  --       
CRAION: -- walking in the hall. And then you hear the procedure and you open the door and there was a SWAT team.   
SIMON: I know this was a sensitive topic with your boyfriend. You haven't heard from him.    What do you think?    What do you think may have gone on?    Or happened 
? CRAION: I don't know if the people who are injured have reached outto families yet or they just doesn't know my number. I'm hoping everything is OK.   
SIMON: His number may have been stored in your phone.  
CRAION: Exactly. I mean, I have called his phone like when it was happening, I called him, I text him and there was no reply. But his phone was active. And at  a certain point my sister called and she heard someone pick up and then they  hung up twice. And after that, his phone has just been dead ever since.       
KINKADE: Now we don't know yet if she's made contact with her boyfriend. Police say they won't release the victims' identities until Monday.    Still to come, the pope is on his last stop of his trip through Africa. What  makes it the most dangerous part of the visit yet. That's coming up next.           
KINKADE: Hello. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Here's an update of the top stories we're following this hour.       
KINKADE: Russia has imposed economic sanctions on Turkey for the downing of one of its fighter jets. In a new measure, Moscow has curtailed the  import of certain Turkish goods into Russia and there are also new travel  restrictions between the two countries.        A U.S. law enforcement official tells CNN the suspected gunman in a women's  clinic attack expressed anti-abortion and anti-government views following his  arrest; 57-year-old Robert Dear is in jail without bail. He's due to face court  on Monday.    Pope Francis is in the Central African Republic after leaving Uganda earlier on  Sunday. He's there to spread messages of peace to a country fraught with  sectarian violence and to underline the importance of uplifting people from  poverty in one of the world's poorest countries.    President Hollande is expected to meet with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon  this hour ahead of the COP 21 summit. The meeting begins in Paris on Monday  under heavy security after the terror attacks.    The climate change summit will host 150 heads of state along with 40,000  visitors and delegates; 120,000 police officers and soldiers will provide the  security.           
KINKADE: In Paris nearly 150 heads of state will start arriving in a few hours for the COP 21 summit. They will try to agree on a plan to stop global warming.  France has banned public demonstrations to ensure greater security but activists  in Paris got around that ban and laid down shoes in a symbolic protest.    They are demanding strong environmental commitments and we have seen protests in  other parts of the world. These images come from New Zealand, Switzerland, the  Philippines and Australia.    One climate scientist has been running for months ahead of the conference all  the way from Norway to Paris and it's all to raise awareness for how climate  change has affected the Arctic. CNN's John Sutter biked alongside him for part  of that journey, take a look.       
JOHN SUTTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Erlend Moster Knudsen is a climate scientist from Norway. And he's been running for nearly four months.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:.  
SUTTER: They call this journey Pole to Paris. It started in the Arctic and I caught up with him thousands of kilometers later here in Northern  France.   
ERLEND MOSTER KNUDSEN, CLIMATE SCIENTIST: Yes, today we're going to do about 32 kilometers from Aubergeto Trelawne. And that's quite an average day  for us.   
SUTTER: He only carries one extra pair of clothes and he's already on his fourth pair of shoes.   
KNUDSEN: All that's in this bag is everything I have.  
SUTTER: Today it's almost eight hours on the road through villages and across farms. His destination, a U.N. climate summit called COP 21. And I  had to bike just to keep up.   
KNUDSEN: What we're trying to do with this journey is running and biking across half the globe, it's really to connect the stories from people around the world.    For me, the distances, the world's kind of gotten smaller rather than larger  over this journey as I'm seeing it's possible actually to move just by running  from pretty much polar regions into Paris.   
SUTTER: Erlend has run the farthestgroup. He's been 2,100 kilometers on the road, running almost a marathon a day. He started in  Arctic Norway. Some days have been beautiful, other days have been like this,  snowy and rainy here in France.    He's on his way to the COP 21 climate talks, where he'll bring with him all the  stories of people he's met along the road.   
KNUDSEN: In the Arctic, things start changing rapidly. It's warming more than twice as fast as the global average. This is all having huge consequences, for  example, for reindeer, for polar bears, but also for people living in the  region.    In Paris, I hope very much we can continue on this path, that we can take  another step and a big and important step in the right direction.   
SUTTER: The recent terror attacks in Paris haven't stopped him. If anything, he's more determined to arrive with a message of hope -- John Sutter,  CNN, Trelawne, France.       
KINKADE: And you'll get complete coverage of the COP 21 summit on a special section of our website, also reports on the climate change debate from the  field, from the community that's standing up to coal mining efforts to why that  steak you enjoy has a bigger carbon footprint than you might think. It's all at  cnn.com/2 degrees.    In the United States ice storms continue across the Central Plains and  temperatures are expected to remain below freezing through and until Sunday  morning. Karen Maginnis is standing by at the International Weather Center.    It seems pretty cold in those parts of the world, Karen.   
KAREN MAGINNIS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: It is and they have really been paralyzed because of the ice that's on the roads, the power lines and the trees. It's a  relatively slow moving system that we've been watching the last several days.    But this will go into Sunday as a secondary area of low pressure will trek a  little bit further towards the north. This one will be involved more with  snowfall and some gusty winds, whereas --       
MAGINNIS: -- further to the south we really have that dividing line between the warm moist air out ahead of the system and that cold air that was diving in on  the back side of this.    But lots of folks traveling Interstate 35, Interstate 40, cutting across the  South Central United States, especially in through Oklahoma, in and around  Oklahoma City.       
MAGINNIS: Take a look at video that we have to show you. Everything covered with ice, in some instances as much as 2 inches of it. Power outages all  over. There are reports of as many as 10 fatalities associated with fallen trees  and traffic accidents across the region.    It isn't just into Oklahoma but also Kansas, Nebraska, portions of Missouri and  now beginning to snow across sections of the Upper Mississippi River Valley.  There you can see some spinouts, thanks to the icy conditions and the black ice,  ice which is very difficult to see with low visibility or low light and actually  does not look like ice on the roadways.    That ice is going to be spreading a little bit further to the north, as I  mentioned, and really problematic, especially for people who had long weekends  after the Thanksgiving holiday.    But it isn't just the snowfall and the ice. We're seeing just copious amounts of  wet weather right around this Ark-La-Tex region, Oklahoma, Texas and into  Louisiana, where substantial rainfall totals have really saturated the ground  and loosened trees.    It's going to be another difficult 24 hours. Here are the watches, warnings and  advisories out from Texas into Colorado, extending all the way up towards  Minnesota.        Well, as I've mentioned, this is a very complex weather system that has really  planted its roots across the South Central U.S.    And across Europe, we've got back-to-back storm systems that will usher in  plenty of moisture from the United Kingdom to the Benilux region, not just the  wind and the rain. But we could see some damage and power outages with wind  gusts with 100 kilometers per hour or 60 miles per hour -- Lynda, back to you.   
KINKADE: OK. Karen Maginnis, thanks for bringing us up to speed with that.   And climate change protests around the world this weekend aren't the only  demonstrations we've been seeing. Earlier this week, British prime minister  David Cameron pushed his plan for the U.K. to join coalition airstrikes on ISIS  targets on Syria.    On Saturday demonstrators gathered near Downing Street in London to protest the  proposal. Diana Magnay was there.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We don't want your bloody war.   Five, six, seven, eight, stop the killing, stop the hate.    .   
DIANA MAGNAY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: David Cameron made it very clear when his government authorized airstrikes in Iraq last September that he would  seek parliamentary approval before doing the same in Syria. On Thursday he made  his case, saying that it was morally unacceptable to allow the U.S. and France  to do the heavy lifting in Syria. And he insisted that the U.K. would not send  in ground troops.    But there were 70,000 moderate Sunnis on the ground in Syria, who would be  supported by coalition airstrikes.    But for people here, that case is not a convincing one.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think there's no evidence to suggest that what the bombing will actually help the situation and I think, if anything, it's probably more  cause than -- I think IS will be loving it, to be honest. I think it's perfect  -- it's a perfect recruitment tool for them if we go ahead with it.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't think it's a question of standing by our allies. It's a question of whether our allies are right or not.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Nothing's been thought through consequences. And I don't think war is ever the answer, really.   
MAGINNIS: You can expect there to be plenty of telephone calls this weekend as members of Parliament call each other up, trying to rally support for  this vote.    David Cameron has said that he doesn't want to take it to the Commons until he  can be sure that there will be a consensus behind it. But there is talk that  this vote could happen as early as next week -- Diana Magnay, CNN, London.       
KINKADE: Well, still to come, the latest on the pope's trip to the Central African Republic.    Plus a photographer has captured the Cuba of yesterday and today. We'll show you  everyday life in the island through the years.               
KINKADE: Welcome back.   Within the last hour, Pope Francis arrived in the Central African Republic and  security personnel are expressing concerns about the state of the country and  their ability to keep him safe. CNN's Robyn Kriel reports on what makes the last  leg of Pope Francis' trip his most dangerous.   
ROBYN KRIEL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So far in Africa, Pope Francis has followed his typical M.O., taking modest transportation,  mingling with the people on the ground and allowing spontaneity to intervene.  But this laid-back, low-key approach that has made him popular with Africans so  far is what makes his security nervous for his final stop in the Central African  Republic. It will be the pope's first visit to an active war zone.    Fighting between Christian and Muslim militias has killed thousands and  displaced close to 1 million people since violence erupted in 2013. The most  recent spike in violence occurred just in September, when more than 60 people  died.    French forces on the ground have said they cannot guarantee the pope's safety,  while the U.N. is sending reinforcement peacekeepers from the Ivory Coast.    On the ground in CAR, the pope will meet with Muslim and Christian leaders, some  of those who have been displaced by violence. Religious tolerance has been a key  theme of his six-day African tour. At a meeting with religious leaders of  varying faiths in Nairobi, he had this to say.       
POPE FRANCIS: As we look to the future, let us pray all men and women will see themselves as brothers and sisters, united in and through our  differences. Let us pray for peace.       
KRIEL: The already-rescheduled elections in the CAR are planned for less than a month away. There is hope that these, in addition to the pope's message of  peace, may at least bring the people there some hope, perhaps even some  reconciliation -- Robyn Kriel, CNN, Nairobi, Kenya.       
KINKADE: Our Vatican correspondent, Delia Gallagher, is traveling with the pope and joins us now on the phone.       
KINKADE: As mentioned in Robyn's report, security there is a major concern. Give us a sense of what you're seeing.   
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Well, I can tell you when we got to the airport, one of the things that happened besides security is they rush you,  so all of the journalists were taken off the plane very quickly and rushed  through the pope's welcoming ceremony and onto buses.    Fortunately we were escorted by a U.N. military. They wear the blue helmet here  and there were many U.N. armored cars along the way. That being said, it looked  very much like a lot of scenes that we've seen when people come out to welcome  the pope. Everybody was gathered on the side of the road. The main road that  leads down where the pope will be going and I would say certainly thousands of  people, they have all come out.    You know, the significance really of this trip, Lynda, is that he's come at all  and a few people that I was able to speak to at the airport were just thrilled  because they said they were really concerned t having heard the rumors that the  pope might not come because of security.    And it was so important to them that he did come because this really is one of  the places that has been forgotten and that's one of the reasons why Pope  Francis wanted to come here.    The archbishop of the capital city said it, that they couldn't believe it when  they heard the pope had chosen them and chosen their country, that they're just  the last -- they feel like they are the last people on Earth. And that he had  spoken to people in the Muslim community, in the Christian community and even  the armed men, he said, who are all ready to welcome the pope.    Now we should say in terms of the conflict here, we have a Muslim and a  Christian side but it's not necessarily a religious conflict entirely. It's also  a conflict over power and land and the resources because this is a country that  is very rich in diamonds, it's rich in gold and uranium and other minerals.    So this is a power struggle which has yet to be resolved. There is a transition  government that has been put in place as of last year, helped by the U.N., and  you heard in that piece, is expected to bring the country to elections just in  December of this year, so a few days away and we'll have to see how that goes.    So I think, you know, the pope coming here, he's going to visit a mosque. He's  going to talk to political leaders and to religious leaders.    But one of the first things he's doing this afternoon is going to a refugee camp  because as you also heard in that peace there's some 1 million refugees. Half of  them have left and the other half are called displaced, they are here and they  are in camps because of this fighting.    And so I think the pope's message here is to draw attention of the rest of the  world to this situation, it's one of the largest humanitarian crises and, of  course, to give the people a sense that they have not been forgotten -- Lynda.   
KINKADE: OK. Let's hope they can help in particular bridge that divide between Christians and Muslims. Delia Gallagher on the phone for us there, traveling  with the pope, thank you very much.    And as Pope Francis travels through Central Africa, another challenging issue  for Pope Francis is the spread of HIV and the difficulties in containing the  virus under Catholic teachings on birth control.    Earlier CNN senior Vatican analyst John Allen told us that he didn't expect the  pontiff to lay down any new doctrine any time soon.       
JOHN ALLEN, CNN SR. VATICAN ANALYST: If you've got a married couple, where one partner is HIV positive and the other isn't, could -- would the church be OK  with them using condoms to try to prevent transmission of the disease?    That's an issue upon which the teaching authority of the church has not  pronounced definitively and then we've not gotten any indication from Pope  Francis on this trip, which way he leans.    But in general, if you're asking, is there much indication under Pope Francis  the church will revise its position on birth control, the answer there is no.  He's made it clear that's not the case. He's said he's not a doctrinal  revolutionary.       
KINKADE: That was senior Vatican analyst John Allen speaking earlier on CNN.   An American photographer in Cuba has been capturing life in the island for more  than 20 years. You'll see some of his photographs and hear from him on just how  the Communist nation is changing, just ahead. Stay with us right here on CNN.                   
KINKADE: Welcome back. A well-known American photographer has been capturing life in Cuba for over 20 years. Now he's getting to see the country change. Our  Patrick Oppmann reports from Havana.       
PETER TURNLEY, PHOTOGRAPHER: When I make a photograph I'm not trying to knock someone over the head and tell them what they're supposed to think. I want to  offer them a chance to feel what I felt.   
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Peter Turnley hunts for an iconic image to make in the broken-down neighborhood of Central Havana.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:.  
OPPMANN: One of the world's best-known living photo journalists, Turnley as of late has turned his lens on Cuba.   
TURNLEY: One of the things that I think is a reality of our world today is with globalization: so often wherever we do go, things all look the same. But one of  the beautiful things about Cuba is that's not the case.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:.  
OPPMANN: Turnley happens upon Cuba senior citizens exercising in a vacant lot and goes to work while dancing with his new friends. It's a  spontaneous, joyous moment, the kind that keeps bringing Turnley back to the  island.   
TURNLEY: For me this is a beautiful lesson of life. And it's the way that I would love to live life.   
OPPMANN: Turnley's life for decades was centered on capturing the image that made far-ranging in-complexconflicts understandable on a human  level. From the fall of the Soviet Union to the Gulf War to the end of apartheid  in South Africa, Turnley was there.    But during a 1989 visit to Havana, Turnley caught the Cuba bug.   
TURNLEY: I had a sense that change was underfoot. So I've made 20 trips here now in the last four years. So for me this has been -- this sense of change has been  present now for quite a while. I'm grateful that I have --       
TURNLEY: -- a sense that my timing was right and that I was a part of this moment of change.   
OPPMANN: Turnley has released a new book of his Cuba photographs and, in November, inaugurated an exhibit of his work in Havana's premier art  museum.    It's the first of its kind for an American photographer, museum officials say,  since the Cuban revolution.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:.   "He goes to the essence of human drama," she says, "the daily life in Cuba. And  with his photos he makes a portrait, a landscape that is very human, respectful  and sensitive of the Cuban reality."    As the thawed relations continues between Cuba and the U.S., Turnley says he  will continue to capture his moment.   
TURNLEY: And Cuba is one of the places where I've been where, every time I leave, I have a sense of being offered a really beautiful lesson in life. I  think what is transcendental about Cuba in the midst of this moment of change is  the spirit of the Cuban people.    I actually only hope that the change will be as kind to Cuba as it has, as  Cubans have been to me.   
OPPMANN: Patrick Oppmann, CNN, Havana.      
KINKADE: Well, that does it for this edition of CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Thanks so much for joining us. I'll be back with your headlines in just a few  minutes. Stay with us right here on CNN.           
KINKADE: Hello from CNN's world headquarters in Atlanta. I'm Lynda Kinkade and this is CNN NEWS NOW.    Pope Francis has arrived in the Central African Republic. He left Uganda earlier  on Sunday.   
