    
HIGHLIGHT: New information this morning into what could have motivated two shooters to kill 14 people at a California office party. As federal  investigators move closer to determining whether the San Bernardino massacre was  a case of terrorism, President Obama is trying to reassure Americans in the wake  yesterday another mass shooting. Republican presidential candidates expressed  outrage over the string of mass shootings in the country, but they said  extremism, not gun laws are to blame, and that the White House has not done  enough to fight extremism.     
 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: New information this morning into what could have motivated two shooters to kill 14 people at a California office  party. What investigators have found at the crime scene, their ties to  terrorists, and what those who knew the killers are now saying.    Good morning and welcome to EARLY START. I'm Christine Romans.   
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: I'm John Berman. It's Friday, December 4th, 4:00 a.m. in the East.    Welcome to our viewers in the United States and around the world.    New information this morning in the mass shooting in southern California that  killed 14, injured 21. Law enforcement scouring the home and rented car of Syed  Rizwan Farook. They've uncovered well over 1,000 rounds of ammunition and dozens  of pipe bombs. Police have also recovered two smashed cell phones and computer  with a missing hard drive.    We're learning new details about the married shooters. Authorities say Farook  met Tashfeen Malik two years ago on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. He was devout.  He attended services at a local Islamic center twice a day. And law enforcement  officials tell CNN it appears Farook became radicalized. He'd been in touch with  at least one person that the FBI suspected of terrorism.    For the latest, let's bring in CNN's John Vause who's live for us in San  Bernardino.    John, what's the latest on the investigation?   
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCOHR: Well, John, they continue to search for that motive. And at this state they seem to be working on the theory it was possibly a hybrid  between some type of act of terrorism and maybe even some kind of workplace  dispute. The FBI, though, still not willing to call this terrorism, but they are  investigating that possibility.    But here it has been a night of sadness and grieving. Hundreds have turned out  for memorial services. There was a candlelight vigil at a sporting stadium and  services at the largest mosque in the San Bernardino County.    And the coroner, too, has now named all of the victims of Wednesday's killing  spree. They range in age from 26 to 60. And most of the victims we're told had  some kind of personal connection to Rizwan Farook, 12 of the 14 dead, 18 of the  21 wounded worked with him at that county office.    And officials here believe that this could have been so much worse because  Farook and his wife had that massive stockpile of ammunition. They believe there  was a real possibility they were on their way to planning some other attack.  Even so, the first responder who arrived on the scene described what was  essentially carnage inside that conference center.       
LT. MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPT.: It was unspeakable the carnage that we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and unfortunately  already dead. And the pure panic on the face of those individuals that were  still in need and needing to be safe. We asked -- we got as many people out as  quickly as we could.       
VAUSE: Now, Lieutenant Mike Madden also went on to say initially those who were still inside that building would not come when they called. They would not leave  that building because they were too scared. He had to call them a number of  times before anyone would leave. Once the first person made that movement to  leave then the rest came and the floodgates opened and everyone tried to get out  of that building as quickly as possible -- John.   
BERMAN: All right. John Vause for us in San Bernardino -- thanks so much, John.  
ROMANS: Survivors of the massacre of told police that Rizwan Farook may have been set off by some kind of argument. They say he left angry and came back  later with his wife, guns blazing. But so far, it's unclear what that fight was  about.    The widow of one victim who died says her husband could have been involved. She  tells CNN's Gary Tuchman her husband was an outspoken conservative Jew who was  openly critical of Muslims.       
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You've been open about this and so is your husband about what he's said about Muslims in the past. What has he said?   
JENNIFER THALASINOS, WIDOW OF VICTIM NICHOLAS THALASINOS: He's very upset about what is has been doing and the radicalized Muslims, al Qaeda, the whole  situation. He's upset about the fact that the majority of the Muslims, you know,  it's like they won't come out and do something about it.   
TUCHMAN: Do you think he talked to Farook about that?  
THALASINOS: He might have.  
TUCHMAN: And do you have any knowledge at all from anyone you've talked to what happened at the function yesterday with Farook?   
THALASINOS: No, I just know that supposedly there was an argument and very as easily could have been an argument with my husband. I wouldn't be surprised.       
BERMAN: County health employees said the attack came as a complete surprise to them.     They say he was well-liked, mild-mannered. Co- workers even threw him  a baby shower. Now, they say they are shocked, they're angry.    Patrick Baccari shared a cubicle with him for three years. He says his life may  have been saved by a well-timed trip to the bathroom.       
PATRICK BACCARI, SHARED CUBICLE WITH SHOOTER RIZWAN FAROOK: They were giving us a 15-minute break so I went to the rest room. While I was in the rest room, I  finished. I was going to dry my hands, and that's when the attack started.    And I thought somebody booby trapped the towel dispenser because I was being  pummeled as I was pulling the paper towels dispenser. So, I looked back and the  minute I can see, I was bleeding in my temple, my nose. And then there's other  little fragments that hit me all over the place. They're so tiny that unless  they start to fester, they'll probably remain there.       
ROMANS: Wow. Overnight, thousands of people attending memorials across the San Bernardino area like this one at a stadium and at churches, schools and mosques.  We're learning more this morning about the victims. Many who lived through the  horrific experience now sharing their stories of survival.    We get more this morning from CNN's Dan Simon. He's in San Bernardino.       
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: John and Christine, you still have a number of people at area hospitals, two people in critical condition. But the others are  either in fair or stable condition, which is pretty remarkable considering what  some of these people had to go through.    Take the example of 24-year-old Kevin Ortiz. He was shot five times. I spoke to  his aunt who told me exactly what he had to go through.   
ROSA ORTIZ, AUNT OF SHOOTING VICTIM: He was sitting down with several of his co-workers and there was a break. And several people stepped out into the  hallway. He heard gunfire but wasn't sure if it was gunfire. He assumed it was a  drill of some kind.    The doors opened, and he saw two masked people dressed in black. And he still  thought it was a drill. He felt his first shot on his leg but he said he felt  more like if someone just threw something at him. It wasn't really sharp pain  immediately until a few seconds later.    And then he ended up sustaining another shot on the shoulder. So his reaction  then, this is real. Let me get under the table. He got under the table and  according to Kevin, the gunman came back and shot him again.   
SIMON: How many times was he shot?  
ORTIZ: Five times.  
SIMON: He was shot five times.  
ORTIZ: Five times.  
SIMON: Did he think he was going to die?  
ORTIZ: Absolutely. That was one of his shots he shared with us. He was able to make two phone calls. One to his wife and one to his father, and to both of  them, he said that he had been shot, but he was going to be OK and that he loved  them.   
SIMON: We've heard several other stories like that. People who after being shot were able to pick up their cell phone and call loved ones making what they  thought might be good-bye messages. Obviously, there's going to be many  surgeries over the next several days but hopefully many recoveries.    John and Christine, back to you.       
ROMANS: Dan, thanks for that.  
BERMAN: The names of all those victims, people coming from all walks of life there in that community grieving this morning.    President Obama and Republicans running for president now very much discussing  the issues surrounding these mass shootings. Different ideas about even how to  talk about it. That's next.   
 ROMANS: As federal investigators move closer to determining whether the San Bernardino massacre was a case of terrorism, President Obama is trying  to reassure Americans in the wake yesterday another mass shooting. He's ordered  U.S. flags to be flown at half staff through Monday to honor those victims in  California.    The president said to be considering executive orders in an effort to keep guns  off the streets, targeting the so-called gun show loophole that allows people to  buy firearms without a background check.    CNN senior Washington correspondent Joe Johns has more.       
JOE JOHNS, CNN SENIOR WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: John and Christine, the president appearing in the Oval Office for a meeting with his national security  team, then appearing before the cameras to talk about San Bernardino, appearing  just a bit tentative as well as muted. Tentative talking about the investigation  because his national security team was only able to give him tentative  information, not conclusive. Muted in talking about policy because the White  House said the president had so many times had to talk about mass shootings  before.    Listen.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think so many Americans sometimes feel as if there's nothing we can do about it. We are fortunate to  have an extraordinary combination of law enforcement and intelligence and  military that work every single day to keep us safe.    But we can't just leave it to our professionals to deal with the problem of  these kinds of horrible killings. We all have a part to play. And I do think  that as the investigation moves forward, it's going to be important for all of  us, including our legislatures, to see what we can do to make sure that when  individuals decide that they want to do somebody harm, we're making it a little  harder for them to do it, because right now, it's just too easy.   
JOHNS: A predictable back and forth in the White House briefing room over measures the president says would help keep people safe and whether they would  have made any difference in San Bernardino. The White House is considering  executive action to put some new measures in place. No timetable on that from  the White House -- John and Christine.       
BERMAN: All right. Joe, thanks so much.    The shooting is a major issue for Republican presidential candidates  who were courting Jewish voters at an event in Washington. They expressed  outrage over the string of mass shootings in the country, but they said  extremism, not gun laws to blame and the White House has not done enough to  fight extremism.    Let's get more now from CNN's Jeff Zeleny.       
JEFF ZELENY, CNN SENIOR WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: John and Michelle, as investigators in California continue to search for a motive in this latest mass  shooting, it's already playing out on the presidential campaign.    Speaking in Washington on Thursday, several Republican candidates drew attention  to this shooting.    Senator Ted Cruz said the country is at war and accused the Obama administration  of not taking seriously enough radical Islamist terrorism in the United States.    Donald trump, however, had a bit of a different take. He says voters are looking  for someone of strength. Whenever there's a tragedy in the country, his numbers  go up. Let's take a listen.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I'm going to get people jobs and I'm going to protect people. That's why every time there's a tragedy, everything  goes up. My numbers go way up because we have no strength in this country. We  have weakness. We have weak, sad politicians.   
ZELENY: Even as we learn more about this latest mass shooting, it is clear that these mass shootings that have taken place across the country are becoming part  of the soundtrack of this presidential campaign. Democrats are calling for more  gun control. Republicans are saying this administration needs to take seriously  the threats facing the country.    No matter which side you're on, voters will be sorting this out in the next two  months before voters start casting their ballots in 2016 campaign starting in  Iowa in less than two months.       
ROMANS: Jeff, thanks for that.   Speaking at a campaign event in New Hampshire on Thursday, Democratic  frontrunner Hillary Clinton expressed confidence in the San Bernardino  investigation, but said it's painfully obvious to her what drove the two  shooters to kill.       
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We will learn more about what went on and who these people were, and what their motivations were. But it's becoming  clearer that we are dealing with an act of terrorism, something that included  bombs, luckily one that didn't go off, but pipe bombs that were found through a  search of their home, lots of weapons, and just a deliberate, hateful murder of  all those innocent people.       
ROMANS: Clinton has called for immediate action on gun safety reform in the wake of that massacre.   
BERMAN: Intelligence now indicating that ISIS is ready to attack in Europe again. This following the massacre in Paris. We're live with what investigators  are now saying the new city in the crosshairs. That's next.   
 ROMANS: European intelligence suggests the United Kingdom could be ISIS' next target after Paris and that ISIS is planning an attack. The  intelligence suggests British ISIS fighters have been instructed by senior ISIS  operatives to attack and that several senior ISIS figures involved in the Paris  plot are also involved in a U.K. plot. The concerns compounded by the vote in  the House of Commons Wednesday, authorizing British airstrikes against ISIS in  Syria.   
BERMAN: German lawmakers set to vote this morning to ramp up the country's military operations against ISIS in Syria, a measure that's considered very  likely to pass, though the German constitution bars most combat operations on  foreign soil. So, air strikes themselves are out, but the country can expand its  military support role. One possibility is deploying high tech reconnaissance  jets to help other countries pinpoint targets in Syria and Iraq.   
ROMANS: In an historic move, Defense Secretary Ash Carter is opening all jobs in combat units to women. No exceptions. Prior to his order, some 10 percent of  military positions were still closed to women. The services must have plans in  place by April 1.   
BERMAN: The Senate passed legislation to repeal provisions of Obamacare. The bill would also strip federal funding from Planned Parenthood. Now, they still  must be approved by the House, which passed a different version in October. And  the White House says if the bill does reach the president's desk, he will veto  it.   
ROMANS: All right. Twenty-three past the hour, time for an early start of your money this Friday morning.    U.S. stock futures looking a little upbeat right now. European shares are down.  Asian stocks joined yesterday's global sell-off this morning after the European  central bank failed to deliver more dramatic stimulus measures than expected.  That sent stocks tumbling yesterday.    Look at the Dow, it dropped 252 points. The S&P 500, its worst day since  September. There's much more to keep investors on high alert today. The big jobs  report due in just a few hours. It is the final jobs report before the Federal  Reserve decides whether to raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a  decade.    Here's what CNN Money's forecast is, 192,000 jobs added. Down from 271,000 in  October. Unemployment rate steady at 5 percent. That's a seven-year low.    Even if the jobs report is less than great, just mediocre, investors are  expecting rates to finally start going up next month.   
BERMAN: It's going to happen soon.  
ROMANS: It's going to happen.  
BERMAN: All right. Twenty-four minutes after the hour right now.   Armed with a dozen pipe bombs, thousands of bullets and in contact with at least  one suspected terrorist. New information about the shooter at the California  office party, that's coming up next.   
 BERMAN: New information in the investigation into the California shooting: the stockpile of weapons, possible ties to at least one terrorist and  what some who knew the shooters are now saying about them. This as the community  mourns the loss of 14 lives.    Welcome back to EARLY START. I'm John Berman.   
ROMANS: I'm Christine Romans. It is Friday. It's about 30 minutes past the hour. We welcome all of our viewers in the U.S. and around the world.    The new information this morning on the mass shooting in southern California  that killed 14 and injured 21. Law enforcement scouring the home and the rented  car of Syed Rizwan Farook. They've uncovered well over 1,000 rounds of  ammunition, a dozen pipe bombs. Police have also uncovered two smashed cell  phones and a computer with a missing hard drive.    We're also learning new details about the married shooters. Authorities say  Farook met Tashfeen Malik two years ago on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia.   
