    
HIGHLIGHT: Law enforcement scouring the home and rented car of Syed Rizwan Farook, one of San Bernardino shooters, and they've uncovered well over 1,000  rounds of ammunition and a dozen pipe bombs, among other items. Over 9,000 of  people attending memorials across the Sand Bernardino area at stadiums,  churches, schools and mosques; We're learning more this morning about the  victims, many who lived through the horrific experience now sharing their  stories of survival. The San Bernardino massacre at the center of the  presidential campaign; Now virtually all the Republican candidates raising the  issue at a forum yesterday, virtually all critical of how the President now  handling it. European intelligence suggests the United Kingdom could be the next  target for ISIS and ISIS could now be planning an attack.     
 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: New information on what could have motivated the shooters in the California office party attack. Their stockpile  weapons, they are tie to terrorists and what those who knew them are now saying  as the community mourns the loss of 14 lives.    Welcome back to EARLY START. I'm Christine Romans.   
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Nice to see you today. I'm John Berman. 30 minutes past the hour. Welcome to our viewers here in the United States and all around the  world.    We do have new information this morning on the mass shootings in Southern  California that killed 14, injured 21. Law enforcement scouring the home and  rented car of Syed Rizwan Farook. They've uncovered well over 1,000 rounds of  ammunition and a dozen pipe bombs. Police have also recovered two smashed cell  phones and a computer with a missing hard drive. We're also learning new details  about the married shooters. Authorities say the man met his wife Tashfeen Malik  two years ago during a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. He was devout, he attended  services at the local Islamic there twice a day.    And law enforcement officials tell CNN, it appears he became radicalized. He'd  been in touch with at least one person the FBI suspected of terrorism.    For the latest, let's get to CNN's John Vause in San Bernardino.   
JOHN VAUSE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, John and Christine, well officials continue to search for that motive, a reason why, it's been a night of sadness here in  San Bernardino. Hundreds turned out for memorial services. They gathered at a  sporting stadium in where there was a candlelight vigil. Services were also held  at the largest mosque in the county. And the coroner has now officially named  all of the victims. They range in age from 26 to 60.    And most of the victims had some kind of personal connection to Syed Rizwan  Farook. 12 of the 14 who were killed and 18 of the 21 who were wounded worked  with him at the county office here as well. And officials say this killing spree  could have been so much worse because Farook and his wife had this massive cache  of ammunition, thousands of rounds of ammunition. Still, for the first  responders, the first police officer who arrived on the scene, he described what  was essentially carnage inside that conference center.       
LT. MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPT: It was unspeakable, the carnage that we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and unfortunately  already dead. And the pure panic on the face of those individuals that were  still in need and needing to be safe. We asked -- we got as many people out as  quickly as we could.       
VAUSE: Sources also say they believe Farook became radicalized. He had contacts with a number of people under investigation by the FBI the links to  international terrorism. John, Christine.   
ROMANS: Thanks John for that. Survivors of the massacre have told police that Rizwan Farook may have been set off by some kind of argument. They say he left  angry and potentially came back later with his wife guns blazing. So far it's  unclear what that fight, if there was one, was about. The widow of one victim  who died in the attack said her husband could have been involved. She tells  CNN's Gary Tuchman, her husband was an outspoken conservative Jew who was openly  critical of Muslims.       
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You've been open about this is what your husband about, what do you said about Muslims in the past?   
JENNIFER THALASINOS, WIDOW OF VICTIM NICHOLAS THALASINOS: Yes.  
TUCHMAN: What has he said?  
THALASINOS: He's was just, he's very upset about what ISIS has been doing and the radicalized Muslims, al Qaeda, the whole situation. He's upset about the  fact the majority of the Muslims, you know, it's like they won't come out and do  something about it. It's like...   
TUCHMAN: So do you think he talked to Farook about that?  
THALASINOS: He might have.  
TUCHMAN: And do you have any knowledge at all from anyone you've talked to, what happened at the function yesterday with Farook?   
THALASINOS: No, I just -- I know that supposedly there was an argument and very easily could have been an argument with my husband. I wouldn't be surprised.       
BERMAN: County Health employees who worked with the shooter for years say the attack came as a complete surprise to them. They say he was well liked, and mild  mannered. Co-workers even threw him a baby shower. Now they're shocked and angry  they say. Patrick Bacari shared a cubicle with shooter for three years. He says  "His life may have been saved simply because he had to go to the bathroom."       
PATRICK BACARI, SHARED CUBICLE WITH SHOOTER RIZWAN FAROOK: They were giving us a 15-minute break. So, I went to the rest room. And while I was in the rest room,  I finished, I was going to dry my hands, and that's when the attack started.     And I thought somebody booby trapped the towel dispenser because I  was being pummeled as I was pulling the towels out of the dispenser. So I looked  back in the mirror, I could see I was bleeding on my temple, my nose and there's  other little fragments. They hit me all over the place. And so there's short of  tiny unless they start to fester, they'll probably remain there.       
ROMANS: Over 9,000 of people attending memorials across the Sand Bernardino area like this one at a stadium. Also at churches, schools and mosques. We're  learning more this morning about the victims, many who lived through the  horrific experience now sharing their stories of survival.    More now from CNN's Dan Simon in San Bernardino.   
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: John and Christine, you still have a number of people at area hospitals. Two people in critical condition, but the others are  either in fair or stable condition which is pretty remarkable considering what  some of these people had to go through. Take the example of 24-year-old Kevin  Ortiz. He was shot five times. And I spoke to his aunt who told me exactly what  he had to go through.       
ROSA ORTIZ, KEVIN ORTIZ'S AUNT: He was sitting down with several of his co-workers, and there was a break. And several people stepped out into the  hallway. He heard gunfire but wasn't sure if it was gunfire. He assumed it was a  drill of some kind. The doors opened, and he saw two masked people dressed in  black. And he still thought it was a drill. He felt his first shot on his leg  but said he felt more like if someone just threw something at him. It wasn't  really sharp pain immediately until a few seconds later. And then he ended up  sustaining another shot on the shoulder. So his reaction then, this is real. Let  me get under the table. So he got under the table and, according to Kevin, the  gunman came back and shot him again.   
SIMON: How many times was he shot?  
ORTIZ: Five times.  
SIMON: He was shot five times?  
ORTIZ: Five times. SIMON: Did he think he was going to die?  
ORTIZ: Absolutely. That was one of his thoughts that he shared with us. He was able to make two phone calls, one to his wife and one to his father. And to both  of them, he said he had been shot, but he was going to be OK and that he loved  them.       
SIMON: And we've heard several other stories like that. People who after being shot were able to pick up their cell phone and call loved ones, making what they  thought might be goodbye messages. Obviously there's going to be many surgeries  over the next several days but hopefully many recoveries. John and Christine,  back to you.   
ROMANS: OK, and Simon, thanks for that. And what they're telling us about what it was like in that room, you know, pieces of the ceiling falling down, the fire  alarm blaring, the sprinklers going off and really pieces of walls and chairs  flying around. They've got scars to heal but they've got a lot more than just  scars, they've got some terrible memories there.   
BERMAN: These shootings now very much at the center of the political debate now in the race for 2016. What the candidates are saying needs to be done. That's  next.   
 BERMAN: The San Bernardino massacre at the center of the presidential campaign. Now virtually all the Republican candidates raising the issue at a  forum yesterday. Virtually all critical of how the President now handling it.    Joining us is the Managing Editor for Content at CNN Politics, Steven Sloan.  Steven, thanks so much for being with us.    First, I want to play what the President said inside the Oval Office yesterday.  He made a statement about the shootings. Let's listen.       
PRES. BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: At this point, this is now an FBI investigation. That's been done in cooperation and consultation with local law  enforcement. It is possible that this was terrorist related. But we don't know.  It's also possible that this was workplace related.       
BERMAN: And it's possible this was terrorist related. That is the kind of language that doesn't go far enough for some Republican candidates. Listen to  what Donald Trump said yesterday this candidate for.       
DONALD TRUMP,PRESIDENTIAL CANDITATE: We had another event which probably was -- to the one yesterday, probably was related. It always happens. But  probably was. When I heard about it, I figured maybe not, but it turns out  probably was related. Radical Islamic terrorism and I'll tell you what. We have  a President that refuses to use the term. He refuses to say it. There's  something going on with him that we don't know about.       
BERMAN: So the President did say it's very possible it's terrorism. But he does not use the language radical Islamic terrorism. Why is that distinction  important to Donald Trump and frankly other Republican candidates?   
STEVEN SLOAN, CNN POLITICS, MANAGING EDITOR FOR CONTENT: Well, you know, this is part of their strategy from Republicans to make sure to try to paint the  President as disconnected from one of the big issues of our time right now,  which is, obviously, terrorism and the crises in the Middle East.    And so this is -- so Republicans are really pressing not only the President but  the Democratic front-runner to succeed him, Hillary Clinton, to engage in this  discussion about -- what they call radical Islamic terror and so far, the  President and secretary Clinton have avoided doing that.   
ROMANS: Listen to what Ted Cruz had to say because he is really sharp language, I think, to illustrate where he thinks we are and how he doesn't think the Obama  administration understands the scope of this.       
TED CRUZ,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This horrific murder underscores that we are at a time of war. Whether or not the current administration realizes it or  is willing to acknowledge it.       
 ROMANS: Are we going to be hearing more of this from Republicans like Ted Cruz that the President still beholden to a narrative from months ago that  al-Qaeda was on its heels and the U.S. was winning, the west was winning against  radical Islamic terrorism?   
SLOAN: Without a doubt, Republicans are beginning to see this as a foreign policy election, and they are looking at the events of the past few days and you  know, and of course the Paris terror attacks as feeding into their narrative  that they are stronger and better positioned to be commander in chief than not  only Obama has been over the past seven or eight years, and what Hillary Clinton  and other democrats might be after 2016.   
BERMAN: So, Steven, you're in humor for a second because CNN/ORC, we have a new poll coming out in 14 minutes and 20 seconds.   
SLOAN: Set your watches.  
BERMAN: We cannot tell you what the poll says. Trust me. You're going to lot of see it because it's pretty surprising. However, what we can say is what polls up  until this point instead of that last week which is that, what happened in Paris  for instance the terror attack. The new focus on terror and national security,  it seems to be helping Donald Trump. Donald Trump increased his standing in  polls we have seen leading up to 13 minutes from now.    Why do you think that is, and how do think he can exploit that going forward,  particularly with these new concerns about possibly domestic terrorism as well?   
SLOAN: Well, this is something that Donald Trump himself talks about. He said yesterday, you know, look, my numbers go up when these things happen because  people feel like I will protect them. And so this is, you know, and so we'll  look at these numbers here in a few minutes and of course the numbers that will  come out over the next few weeks and see if that really comes to play.    But, I think this is, we'll see how, if voters really gravitate toward  Republicans and Trump specifically as these incidents in California and, of  course, across the world settle in.   
BERMAN: And we shouldn't let it pass also, we've played that sound from Donald Trump. At the end there, he made the statement, there's something going on with  this president. We don't know what it is. That seems to be an illusion of the  types of things that he's talked about for years the virtue to be something  else. Who knows what he was referring to? What we do know though is it doesn't  seem to hurt him at least in the polls in this Republican race so far.   
SLOAN: And that's what those striking about Trump's candidacy. We've gone from a series of controversies way back in the summer, if you remember when he talked  about John McCain really being a war hero. You know, up until comments just this  week where he talked about maybe killing families of terrorists. And throughout  all of his comments, nothing has really wounded him. And in fact, it's helped  him.   
ROMANS: All right, CNN Sloan thanks about it. And Bill O'Reilly is actually really pressing Donald Trump about what exactly how would he kill families of  terrorists. And Donald Trump, I think kind of backed away a little bit from  that. But really certainly some interesting rhetoric on the campaign trail in,  you know, with Trump, no questions.    Steven Sloan nice to see you this morning. Thank you.   
SLOAN: Good to be here.  
ROMANS: We'll take a look on what's coming on up on "NEW DAY". Chris Cuomo joins us now from San Bernardino. Chris, you were able to interview the attorneys for  the shooter.   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR, NEW DAY: Yes, for the family of the shooter. A key distinction yet not as much of a distinction as people might imagine. This one  up being a very important interview. It was long. We covered a lot of topics.  The obvious is the same question that the investigators have right now which is  who knew? What did those closest to him, his family, see and not see? Know and  not know? And how are they responding to this. That was the main line for the  attorneys.    But there was more that came out of it, their observations about this case. Why  they aren't ready to see it as terror, why they aren't ready to completely  accept what has been accepted by investigators. So we go through it and it's  important for this. We're also going through all the new information as you have  this morning. We're going to put more meat on the bones of what investigators  know now and where the investigation is taking them because of it.   
BERMAN: All right, Chris. Looking forward to that again. The interview with the attorneys of the family. I just read the transcript of it. I know its coming up  very, very revealing. Frankly, surprising in some ways what they're not willing  to accept at this point. So we look forward to seeing that at all.    Right, about 11 minutes to the hour right now. A warning that ISIS could be  ready to strike again. What city does it have in its sights now? New  intelligence. That's coming up next.   
 BERMAN: European intelligence suggests the United Kingdom could be the next target for ISIS. And ISIS could now be planning an attack. This  intelligence suggests that British ISIS fighters have been instructed by senior  ISIS operators to attack. The question is when, how, where?    Senior International Correspondent Frederik Pleitgen is live in London with  more. Good morning Fred.   
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, John and the British government certainly taking this all very seriously. One of the  interesting things that British Prime Minister David Cameron said only yesterday  is since November. So since around about the time of the Paris attacks, there  have been no less than seven foiled terror plots here in the United Kingdom.    At this certain point in time right now, they believe the fact that Britain has  just voted to also conduct air strikes in Syria and has already carried out  those air strike out could also compound those concerns as well. And as you  said, they believe or senior European intelligence source believes and tells CNN  and apparently ISIS operatives, senior operatives in Syria or Iraq have told  British ISIS fighters to come back here in Britain and conduct attacks.    Now, what they've don't know is how imminent those attacks are but certainly  from looking here on the streets, you can tell these clearly take this very  seriously. There's an increased police presence on the streets just two days  ago. There was a police exercise which they did for the media as well to show  people that they are ready for anything to happened, John.   
BERMAN: All right, Frederik Pleitgen for us in London, taking this new intelligence very, very, very seriously. Appreciate it Fred.   
ROMANS: All right, new in just last few minutes German lawmakers have voted to ramp up the country's military operations against ISIS in Syria. The german  constitution bars most combat operations on foreign soil. So air strikes are out  but the country can expand its military support role. Specifically Germany will  be helping with aerial reconnaissance and refueling.   
BERMAN: All branches of the U.S. military will soon be gender neutral in the historic load. Defense Secretary Ash Carter is opening all jobs in combat  units to women, no exceptions. Prior to this order, some 10 percent of military  positions were still closed to women. The services must have a plan in place by  April 1st.   
ROMANS: All right 55 minutes past the hour. Let's get an early start on your money this morning. U.S. stocks look upbeat right now. Futures do. European  shares do are lower and Asian stocks have fell sharply in this global sell-off  this morning after the European central bank failed to deliver more dramatic  stimulus measures than expected. Of essencestocks tumbling in the U.S. the  Dow look at that dropped 252 points yesterday. The S&P had its worst day since  September. And a lot more to keep investors busy today most importantly the jobs  report, the November jobs report due out at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.    This is the last report before the Fed decides whether to raise interest rates  for the first time in nearly a decade. CNN money predicts 192,000 jobs added  down from a very, very strong October when 271,000 were added, then employment  rate likely to stay the same at five percent at the seven-year low. The Fed  sheetJanet Yellen yesterday suggested the central bank is ready to raise  interest rates because the U.S. economy is strong. But she emphasized that  increases will come slowly in the coming months and of course, interest rate  hikes are something that everyone will feel. Every borrower will feel.    Another huge decision to watch today. In Vienna, OPEC members meeting about  whether to cut oil productions to boost oil prices. The cartel is likely to keep  output steady that because the leader Saudi Arabia wants to put pressure on  American oil producers. Saudi Arabia mean to say wants to keep its market share,  but smaller players like Venezuela and Algeria they desperately want to hit the  brakes on production so that oil prices can move higher. They rely on those oil  prices to run their economies.   
BERMAN: Saudi Arabia generally gets what it wants, though, inside OPEC.   All right new information this morning about the shooters who killed 14 people  in California. A new dramatic interview with the attorney for the families of  the shooters, "New Day" starts right now.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: After hearing the gunfire, she dropped to the floor. She was shot one time in her lower back.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I got the telephone call. I immediately broke down and went into hysterics.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The deadliest mass shooting since Newtown, Connecticut.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Seventy six rounds, killing 14 people.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The situation was surreal. It was unspeakable. The carnage that we were seeing.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: At least one of the San Bernardino shooters may have been radicalized.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We've never seen a terrorist go to their workplace and kill their colleagues.   
FARHAN KHAN, SUSPECT SYED FAROOK'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: Why would need do something like this? I have absolutely no idea. I'm in shock.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I believe every citizen here should be armed.  
OBAMA: We're going to have to -- I think search ourselves as a society to make it harder, not impossible, but harder for individuals to get access to weapons.   
COUMO: To our viewers across the United States and around the world, you are watching "New Day." Alisyn and Michaela are in New York. We're in San  Bernardino, California. There's a lot of new information that morning -- this  morning that makes this far less of a mystery for investigators, yet no less  troubling.    The headline is this "Law enforcement sources say the male shoot was apparently  radicalized." Their basis? They say he was in touch with terrorist suspects  subjects overseas. But officials point out there could have been other factors  in the attack as well. This is still very open investigation, and authorities  are revealing also that they have recovered two smashed cell phones in a garbage  can near the massacre scene. And a computer at the shooter's home was missing  its hard drive.    Investigators also finding an arsenal of weapons and pipe bombs inside the  shooter's home suggesting more carnage certainly could have been planned.    Let's begin our coverage with Victor Blackwell. He is live in Redlands,  California, outside that home. Victor.   
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Chris we're just a few feet from there front door. The windows and doors now aborted up this defective bomb factory  here. As we getting to we getting to details about the electronics recovered  from inside this home and from crime scenes as we're getting details as well  about the carnage these two left in their wake.       
BLACKWELL: More clues unearthed but still no clear motive.    Among the latest discoveries, two smashed cell phones though have  belong to shooters Syed Riswan Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik. Then phone  hidden behind the trash bin near one of the crime scenes. Also found a computer  with the missing hard drive...   
