    
HIGHLIGHT: Protests have erupted around the world to demand action on climate change ahead of the international COP 21 summit; One climate scientist has been  running for months ahead of the conference, all the way from Norway to Paris, to  raise awareness for how climate change has affected the Arctic; Pope Francis is  about to arrive in the Central African Republic with hope for peace in the  war-torn country; In Southeastern Turkey a prominent pro-Kurdish lawyer was  killed when gunfire broke out between security forces and the PKK militants  during a news conference; There is a draft proposal that was hashed out between  the delegates ahead of the COP 21 summit; The Midwestern United States is  dealing with the aftermath of a dangerous winter storm. Millions of people have  welcomed Pope Francis during his visit to Africa but some are worried about his  next stop; After a very secretive trip to Syrian refugee camps here in Jordan,  Ben Carson has released a statement; Police in Kenya say they have thwarted a  terror plot and arrested two would-be attackers; A woman who was held hostage  inside the Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs was there for an  ultrasound when the gunman opened fire; Police in Colorado Springs held a vigil  on Saturday for Officer Garrett Swasey; A well-known American photographer has  been capturing life in Cuba for over 20 years.             
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR: Paris launches a massive security operation as more than 100 world leaders arrive for a crucial summit on climate  change.    Plus Pope Francis is about to arrive in the Central African Republic, what he's  hoping to accomplish in the war-torn country.    And Russia's slapped tough sanctions on Turkey over the downing of a fighter  jet.       
KINKADE: Hello to our viewers in the U.S. and around the world. I'm Lynda Kinkade and this is CNN NEWSROOM.       
KINKADE: World leaders will begin to arrive in Paris today ahead of the COP 21 conference. Protests have erupted around the world to demand action on climate  change ahead of the international summit, which begins on Monday.       
KINKADE: In Indonesia, protesters gathered at the city center, urging the government to reduce dependency on fossil fuels. Protests have also  been seen in Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland and the Philippines; 24  Greenpeace activists have been placed under house arrest, suspected of planning  violent demonstrations; 120,000 police and soldiers will provide security for  the event.       
KINKADE: Joining me now is CNN correspondent Phil Black, live from Paris. And Phil, obviously we have seen so many demonstrations across the world. People now  are calling for action on climate change but, in Paris, due to security  concerns, demonstrations there were cancelled.   
PHIL BLACK, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. That's right, Lynda. Paris is supposed to be the epicenter of this global public movement. Organizers have been planning a  huge march here.    Hundreds of thousands of people, it was hoped, would take part, joining those  people around the world in a popular demonstration, if you like, demanding a  strong, ambitious result from the climate negotiations that will be taking place  here over the next two weeks.    But it's not to be. While Paris is making the commitment, stepping up and  insisting that these talks go ahead, guaranteeing the massive security required  to protect 147 heads of state, the tens of thousands of other people that will  be attending the official part of this event, there's still been a cost, that  festival-type aspect to it.    The area where people themselves can get involved and pressure leaders and  negotiators to come up with a real strong result, well, that's been scaled back  enormously, if not wiped out entirely.    So the march can't go ahead. Activists are planning other smaller, more nuanced  events around Paris today. We are seeing lots of shoes having been volunteered,  having been laid out at a location close to the march, where the march was to  be. That is obviously still an attempt to demonstrate numbers.    Support will for securing a strong climate deal here. There is talk of a large  human chain being formed in a part of Paris later today as well. These are much  smaller than the hundreds of thousands of people expected for the march itself.    But the hope I think that activists have is that this -- the emotional reaction  to the attacks here in Paris will be one that still encourages world leaders,  the negotiators and representatives to work harder at coming up with a strong  agreement at the end of the two weeks of talks.    And that, many say, would be the ultimate act of defiance to those who took so  many lives here in Paris just two weeks ago -- Lynda.   
KINKADE: Absolutely. And this, of course, this event would have already been a security headache even before those Paris terror attacks happened. Just give us  a sense of the security situation.   
BLACK: Well, it's incredibly visible. It is everywhere, really. You mentioned 120,000 police, gendarmes -- that's the military police, other security forces  -- that's nationally. That's how many people as well as soldiers as well. That's  how many have been mobilized to protect France at the moment.    Then around the site of the conference itself is a big security perimeter there.  A lot of streets are going to be locked off over the next 24 hours as more  leaders arrive, as these talks get ready to begin officially tomorrow.    There's 3,000 security forces there or around that number there alone protecting  that site. So a massive operation.    And when you get a sense of those resources that are required to hold something  like this, to protect so many world leaders, so many other visitors and so  forth, you can perhaps understand and even the environmental activists  themselves say they can understand why perhaps a huge march involving hundreds  of thousands of people is something that the police, security forces and the  government simply wouldn't have been able to deal with today -- Lynda.   
KINKADE: Yes, a huge effort there by a lot of people involved.   Phil Black in Paris, we will check in with you later. Thank you very much for  joining us.           
KINKADE: One climate scientist has been running for months ahead of the conference, all the way from Norway to Paris and it is all to raise awareness  for how climate change has affected the Arctic. CNN's John Sutter biked  alongside him for part of the journey. Take a look.       
JOHN SUTTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Erlend Moster Knudsen is a climate scientist from Norway. And he's been running for nearly four months.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:.  
SUTTER: They call this journey Pole to Paris. It started in the Arctic and I caught up with him thousands of kilometers later here in Northern  France.   
ERLEND MOSTER KNUDSEN, CLIMATE SCIENTIST: Yes, today we're going to do about 32 kilometers from Aubergeto Trelawne. And that's quite an average day  for us.   
SUTTER: He only carries one extra pair of clothes and he's already on his fourth pair of shoes.   
KNUDSEN: All that's in this bag is everything I have.  
SUTTER: Today it's almost eight hours on the road through villages and across farms. His destination, a U.N. climate summit called COP 21. And I  had to bike just to keep up.   
KNUDSEN: What we're trying to do with this journey is running and biking across half the globe, it's really to connect the stories from people around the world.    For me, the distances, the world's kind of gotten smaller rather than larger  over this journey as I'm seeing it's possible actually to move just by running  from pretty much polar regions into Paris.   
SUTTER: Erlend has run the farthestgroup. He's been 2,100 kilometers on the road, running almost a marathon a day. He started in  Arctic Norway. Some days have been beautiful, other days have been like this,  snowy and rainy here in France.    He's on his way to the COP 21 climate talks, where he'll bring with him all the  stories of people he's met along the road.   
KNUDSEN: In the Arctic, things start changing rapidly. It's warming more than twice as fast as the global average. This is all having huge consequences, for  example, for reindeer, for polar bears, but also for people living in the  region.    In Paris, I hope very much we can continue on this path, that we can take  another step and a big and important step in the right direction.   
SUTTER: The recent terror attacks in Paris haven't stopped him. If anything, he's more determined to arrive with a message of hope -- John Sutter,  CNN, Trelawne, France.       
KINKADE: In a few minutes I will ask an expert about the climate issues to be discussed at that Paris summit. Stick around for that one.    The pope has left Uganda and is set to arrive in Bangui, the capital of the  Central African Republic very shortly. While there he hopes to ease tensions  between Muslims and Christians, who have accounted for widespread violence  within the country.    This is the first time the pope has visited an active war zone, drawing concerns  from his security personnel. But Pope Francis hopes he can still make a  difference despite that danger.    Sectarian violence in the country has led to security concerns ahead of the last  leg of Francis' travels through Africa, as I just mentioned. CNN's senior  Vatican analyst, John Allen, weighed in on what the pope hopes to accomplish  during his time in the Central African Republic.       
JOHN ALLEN, CNN SR. VATICAN ANALYST: What can difference can he make? I mean, that obviously remains to be seen. But this is a country, as you say, that has  been locked in a bloody civil war for the last couple of years.    It's a place where the violence basically breaks Christian Muslims and where 80  percent of the population is Christian. And so I think Pope Francis believes  that if he hits the ground and he calls on those organized Christian militias,  the anti-balaka militia, if not to lay down their arms at least to observe a  cease-fire to allow peaceful elections to unfold, he could make a real  difference.    Now we'll see if that happens. But I think is another indication of how  committed Francis is to trying to be a peace pope.       
KINKADE: Ahead, we will bring you the pope's arrival in the Central African Republic live as it happens.    In Southeastern Turkey, a prominent pro-Kurdish lawyer, Tahir Elci, was killed  on Saturday. Elci was shot when gunfire broke out between security forces and  the PKK militants during a news conference. Two Turkish police officers were  also killed and another wounded.    Meanwhile, Russia is hitting Turkey with economic sanctions. It is a reaction to  the downing of one of its warplanes by Turkish forces last week. Among the  penalties, a block of certain Turkish goods imported into Russia.    Moscow also curtailed visa-free travel between the two countries and Russian  travel agents will no longer sell packages for trips into Turkey. CNN's Ian Lee  is joins us from Istanbul. And before we get to all of that, Ian, you have got  some more information on the downing of that Russian jet.   
IAN LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Lynda.      
LEE: We are hearing the body of the pilot of that plane has been delivered to Turkey, that it was late last night that the body was handed over to the Turks.  There were men there of the orthodox religion that took the body and prepared  it. Now it's going to be handed over to the Russians.    This has been a very sensitive point as well, as having -- getting that body  back to the Russians. This is something that the Russians wanted to have done  swiftly. And now we are seeing that the body, in fact, has been handed over.   
KINKADE: Yes. Very tough situation. And of course the fallout from that continues. Russia is certainly handing down a lot of sanctions to Turkey.   
LEE: That's right. This isn't going to be a forgive-and-forget moment for Putin. We have seen a number of economic sanctions and you mentioned tourism. And that  really is a big one. They bring roughly $4 billion worth of tourism to Turkey  every year.    And you have that visa-free travel being thrown out as well. That's going to  make it a lot more difficult for businessmen from both countries going back and  forth. And we have heard from Moscow, we've heard from Ankara saying to their  citizens that you shouldn't go to the other country unless it is absolutely  necessary.    There are other measures that Russia could take still. We haven't seen any moves  toward the gas. Turkey gets about 60 percent of its gas from Russia. There's  also we are watching this nuclear power plant that is a multibillion dollar  project, the one that Russia is building for Turkey. So there's a lot here that  could happen.    But really it all hinges what we are hearing is on an apology. Putin demands an  apology from President Erdogan and Erdogan wants an apology from Putin. It just  seems like both men want something that neither is willing to give.   
KINKADE: Yes, certainly not.   And we know Erdogan is hoping to meet with Putin at the Paris summit.    What are the chances that will happen?   
LEE: Seems really slim at this point, Lynda. Again, we have -- going back to this apology. Putin will not meet until there is an apology. And if -- the day  of the incident, in fact, Erdogan tried to call to talk about it. Putin just  didn't answer.    There is another opportunity, though, on December 15th, that Erdogan is  scheduled to go to Moscow to meet with Putin. This is something that has been  planned for a while. We do not know if that trip has been cancelled or not. But  still it really does seem like right now it hinges on that apology.   
KINKADE: And now looking at the killing of this pro-Kurdish lawyer in Turkey, does it look like that was an accidental death that he was caught in the  crossfire?    Or do authorities believe he was assassinated?   
LEE: There's some really dramatic video surrounding the killing of Tahir Elci in Diyarbakir in Southeastern Turkey. But the one piece of video that is missing is  the actual moment where he is shot and who shot him. This has really raised a  lot of questions.    We heard from the Turkish prime minister, saying really it could be one of two  options, either A, he was assassinated or, B, he was an innocent bystander  caught up in some crossfire because if you look at this video you can see that  there was a gunfight before he was shot and killed.    Now the Diyarbakir Bar Association, which Tahir Elci was the head of, has said  this is an assassination. We need to also remember that Tahir Elci last month  was on CNN Turk and he was talking about the PKK, the Kurdish PKK, which is  called a terrorist organization by Turkey as well as the United States.    He said that they are not a terrorist organization and that there should be some  political dialogue between them and the Turkish government.    Well, right after that, he was arrested. He was interrogated. He was released  but he had received a lot of death threats following that. So these are all  things that investigators are going to have to look into. But this is a very  polarized climate. You have the pro- Kurdish, the major pro-Kurdish party  doubtful that a thorough investigation will bring light to this -- Lynda.   
KINKADE: OK. Ian Lee, a lot to cover there from Turkey. Thank you so much for staying across it all for us. We will talk to you soon.    Still to come, world leaders as we mentioned earlier, are set to meet at the COP  21 climate conference in Paris. We will talk to an expert about the issues on  the table.    Plus an update on Ben Carson's surprise trip to Jordan to visit Syrian refugees  and what he thinks about the crisis after seeing it firsthand. A live report  just ahead.               
KINKADE: Welcome back.   While in Paris, nearly 150 heads of state will start to arrive in a few hours  for the COP 21 summit. They will try to agree to a plan to stop global warming.  The summit is also a security headache for France. Tens of thousands of officers  have been deployed across Paris and border control has been stepped up.    Meanwhile, protesters across the world are demanding strong environmental  commitments.       
KINKADE: These images come to us from New Zealand, Switzerland, the Philippines and Australia.        Ruth Davis joins us now from Paris. She is a senior policy adviser Greenpeace  International.    Ruth, thanks very much for being with us. Now there is a draft proposal that was  hashed out between the delegates ahead of this summit. Just explain for us what  is on the table.   
RUTH DAVIS, SENIOR POLICY ADVISER, GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL: So I think there were three main themes to this that we need to think about. There's the  destination, where are we actually going and what are we trying to achieve?    From our perspective in civil society, it is really important that where we are  going is towards a completely clean energy --       
DAVIS: -- future. So that's one critical part of the conversation.   A second part is what's the map or the process that we will use to get there?    It is really important that we don't see this as just ending in Paris because  the offers we have on the table now, whilst they're important, are not enough to  keep us below 2 degrees or 1.5 degrees temperature wise. So it's really  important that countries are able to come back on a five-year cycle and improve  their levels of ambition.    And the third thing is all about the resources that we will need to get us  there. This is going to be a universal agreement and universal participation  means that we have to have universal access to resources. So that countries,  poorer countries who are facing development challenges, are able to meet those  with the solidarity of other countries around them.    So those are the kind of three key themes, our destination, our map and the  resources to get there.   
KINKADE: Very clear explanation. Now there was some research by the group Globespan that found just four of 20 countries that were polled say that a  strong global deal on climate. That is down from eight countries. That's back in  2009.    Do you think support is waning?   
DAVIS: No, I don't, actually. I think it's a very complicated question because people inevitably respond to these kinds of polls with the issues that are  upmost in their mind at that moment. And this is a difficult world we live in.  There's been facing economic challenges, huge security threats.    It's kind of inevitable that people respond to those immediate issues. But I  think you need to look around you and see that there are hundreds of thousands  of people who are mobilizing and demanding climate action during the course of  this weekend.    We have never seen so many people actually directly involved from all walks of  life, from all kinds of different political backgrounds and countries calling on  governments to come up with a solution.    So, no, I don't feel that. Actually I feel hugely heartened by the level of  support that I see for strong action.   
KINKADE: And of course there does seem to be a growing sense among rich and poor countries that taking action on climate change could be costly and might  destabilize fragile growth in some regions.    How do you take those concerns on board when rallying support for action on  climate change?   
DAVIS: I think it is really important to understand that this transition to a clean energy system is something that needs to happen in a way that actually  supports sustainable economic growth and that supports the opportunities of  people to get out of poverty and live decent lives.    But one of the things that we have seen over the course of the last few years is  that actually the kind of infrastructure, the sort of clean energy that we'd  like to see put in place is hugely economically beneficial for people for all  kinds of different reasons, not least because clean energy doesn't bring with it  all of the difficulties of air pollution, of water pollution, that we have seen  in countries like China, which have been a huge burden on their population and a  huge burden actually on their economy.    So the opportunities to transition to clean energy are ones that are also  opportunities to build a more sustainable economy.    But the reasons why I'm talking actually so much today about resources is  because in order to be able to make use of those opportunities and to capture  them there has to be a sense of solidarity and being able to get access to the  investment, to the infrastructure and to the support for adaptation that allows  countries to get onto a more sustainable path for their citizens.   
KINKADE: OK. Ruth Davis joining us from Paris, senior policy adviser at Greenpeace International.    You will have a busy two weeks ahead there. Thank you so much for joining us.   
DAVIS: Thank you.  
KINKADE: And you can get complete coverage of the COP 21 conference on a special section of our website, also reports on the climate change debate from the  field, from the community that's standing up to coal mining efforts, to why that  stated to enjoy a big carbon footprint than you think. It is all at cnn.com/2  degrees.    The Midwestern United States is dealing with the aftermath of a dangerous winter  storm. Meteorologist Karen Maginnis is at the World Weather Center.    Karen, what's it like?   
KAREN MAGINNIS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: It has been very dangerous along the interstate, secondary roads all across the South Central United States. This has  been a very lingering ice storm that has impacted the region from Texas  Panhandles all the way into Kansas, Nebraska, Missouri and into Iowa.    But you can see the weather pattern is fairly stuck and the ground is becoming  saturated out ahead of this weather system. That has presented a secondary  volume of problems.    Where there were high-water rescues, thanks to the abundance of wet weather  across Northeastern Texas, but these are our weather advisories and winter storm  advisories, warnings and watches. And we are looking at several inches of ice.    And already in Wichita, Omaha, Oklahoma City, ice has been devastating and has  knocked the power out to thousands of people over the last several days.       
MAGINNIS: Take a look at what it did look like in and around Oklahoma City. Everything covered in layers of ice. Now --       
MAGINNIS: -- as pretty as this may look, it does produce a very heavy toll on the power lines, telephone lines, also on trees and limbs. They  come crashing down. And we have seen numerous reports of that happening.    But look at the roadways. They have been clogged as well. There have been  spinouts, tractor-trailers that have jackknifed. Very dangerous driving  conditions across the South Central U.S. And we're looking at already nine  fatalities associated in the last several days because of the continuing  situation; there could be more.    And across sections of Europe, back-to-back storm systems will be impacting the  United Kingdom into the Lowlands region into the Benelux and into Scandinavia.  While further to the south, those temperatures will be warming up slightly.    But we have this long fetch of moisture on back-to-back storm systems, just kind  of aimed at Ireland, Northern Ireland, also in to Scotland, as well as in to  Wales and the winds will be very gusty here over the next 24 to 48 hours.    As we watch that steady stream of moisture, the winds could gust as high as 100  kilometers per hour or about 60 miles per hour -- Lynda, back to you.   
KINKADE: Thanks, Karen. Some incredible pictures out of Oklahoma City. I was feeling cold just looking at that.   
MAGINNIS: Exactly.  
KINKADE: Thanks, Karen.   Well, there's another weather disaster hitting China's capital. This one is  manmade, though. Beijing residents have been advised to stay indoors as smog  there reached more than 15 times the safe level. Authorities blame coal fuel  heating in homes across the city. The thick smog has reduced visibility to just  a few hundred meters. Some 20 million people live in Beijing.    Still to come, Pope Francis continues his trip through Africa. We will bring you  the latest from the Central African Republic just ahead. Stay with us.       
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Here's an update of the top stories we are following this hour.       
KINKADE: Russia is imposing economic sanctions on Turkey for the shooting down of one of its fighter jets. The measures block the import of  certain goods into Turkey -- from Turkey into Russia, sorry. Moscow also  curtailed visa-free travel between the two countries.    Polls are open in Burkina Faso in their first free election in almost 27 years.  Voters will elect a new president after former president Blaise Compaore was  overthrown a year ago. Compaore was attempting to change the country's  constitution so that he could maintain power.    The pope is set to arrive in the Central African Republic any moment now. He  left Uganda earlier on Sunday. He will look to spread a message of peace in a  country ravaged by sectarian violence between Christians and Muslims. This is  the first time the pope has ever visited an active war zone.    Traveling with the pope is CNN Vatican correspondent Delia Gallagher -- and  apparently they have just landed in the country.    Delia, the pope's trip to the Central African Republic is the biggest security  challenge for the Vatican.    How have they prepared for this?   
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Lynda, I can tell you we are here at the airport. There are obviously U.N. security, there's about some 10,000 to  13,000 U.N. security here in the Central African Republic. There are also French  troops, there's of course also the Vatican security.    So certainly in terms of security, this is the leg of the trip that people were  concerned about. This is a country which has been suffering, at least in the  last two years, severe fighting between Christian and Muslim militia groups, not  entirely because of religion, also because it is a country rich in natural  resources, diamonds, minerals and so on.    And there's a power struggle. It has a long history of civil war, a long history  of coup and military regimes. So it is unstable.    However, the Vatican has decided. Their security came several days ago and did  another sweep. We've been asking the pope's spokesman every day on this Africa  trip if the trip is confirmed and here we are.    And I think certainly for the people of this nation it will be an important  trip. It's an important trip for the pope. The archbishop of the capital city,  Bangui, said it best when he said the pope, in choosing to come here, has chosen  the weakest and has chosen the poorest. And I think that's the message that the  pope is hoping to give.    Two things have gone on. On Monday he will visit a mosque in one zone of Muslim  area. And then he will also open the holy doors of the Catholic cathedral and  that is a kind of symbolic gesture. It is the main door of their cathedral,  which is connected to the pope's special jubilee year for reconciliation and  peace.    So those are the two things that we will be looking for when the pope comes  down. He is just saying, meeting with the transitional president of the Central  African Republic and we are being pushed over to get into the convoy and get  ready for the pope. So I will let you go, Lynda, and will be back next hour with  some more.   
KINKADE: OK, Delia Gallagher, we appreciate that update. Thank you so much for joining us.    U.S. Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson is calling the Syrian refugee  crisis a great human tragedy. That came after visiting with refugees in Jordan  on Saturday. Carson admits it's a situation that needs to be fixed but doesn't  believe the U.S. is the country to do it.    CNN correspondent Oren Liebermann joins us live from Amman, Jordan, with the  latest on Carson's surprise trip.    And Oren, this was a very secretive visit.    What exactly was Ben Carson hoping to achieve?   
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, it could be that here Dr. Ben Carson is trying to boost his foreign policy and national security credentials, not  only because those are seen as two of his weak areas but that's very much where  the Republican presidential candidates are focusing their efforts right now.    So this could be Carson's attempt to make that more important for him and make  him seem stronger when it comes to foreign policy and national security.    And of course the Syrian refugee crisis and whether the U.S. should take in  Syrian refugees has been a big part of that debate. Most, if not all, Republican  presidential candidates, including Carson, don't want the U.S. to take in Syrian  refugees.    But this is Carson coming on the ground here, visiting two of these Syrian  refugee camps here in Jordan, the Azraq refugee camp and the larger Zaatari  refugee camp, to learn about -- what he says -- to learn about is the crisis for  himself and to make his own decisions. He plans in the next few days, in the  coming days, he said in a statement, to put out his own plan for foreign policy  and --       
LIEBERMANN: -- for Syrian refugees, a problem he blames, in part, on the Obama and Clinton administrations. So this is Carson, not only coming here to be seen  as someone who knows more about the refugee crisis but as somebody whose  credentials are stronger and we will see what that plan is in the coming days --  Lynda.   
KINKADE: And, Oren, in the past, Dr. Carson had made quite a few controversial comments about refugees, in particularly compared some Syrian refugees to rabid  dogs.    Has he had a change of heart?   
LIEBERMANN: Well, based on his statement that he put out yesterday, it certainly seems like it's saying this is a human tragedy and the international community  needs to step up. But it seems it was a carefully worded statement.    He said the U.S. taking in 25,000 Syrian refugees isn't enough but instead of  coming out and blatantly saying, yes, the U.S. should take in more refugees, it  seems what he's saying is the U.S. should help countries like Jordan that are  taking in all of these refugees.    So we'll see what that plan is. But this seems very much like Carson stepping  back from those comments and perhaps trying to make up for those comments where  he compared some Syrian refugees to rabid dogs and coming out with his own plan  on foreign policy, again, they are trying to seem like foreign policy and  national security are not his weak points but his strong points.   
KINKADE: All right. So he actually can see the problem now but he kind of wants countries in the region to do more to support those refugees. Oren Liebermann,  thank you so much for joining us. We appreciate it.    Police in Kenya say they have thwarted a terror plot and arrested two would-be  attackers. Authorities say both men admitted they were working for Iran. As  Robyn Kriel reports, this is not the first time Tehran has been accused of  plotting terrorism in Kenya.       
ROBYN KRIEL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Security officials here told CNN that the two men, both Kenyan nationals, were planning attacks on soft targets such as  Western hotels frequented by tourists, businessmen and diplomats.    Sixty-nine-year-old Abubakar Sadiq Louw and 25-year-old Yassin Sambai Juma have  confessed, police say, to working for Iran's Quds Force, the special forces wing  of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard corps that does work overseas.    The pair's work reportedly included spying for Iran, planning terror attacks and  recruiting other terror operatives. Kenya's chief of police told reporters that  the men had both traveled to Iran under false pretenses to be trained in  spycraft and military tactics and that Juma had also recently trained in  Karbala, Iraq.    Kenyan officials say this man, Mojtaba Ghanbarian, was their Iranian Quds Force  contact. He is believed to have traveled the continent. Police say they have  coordinated with other intelligence services in Africa as to his movements.    Counterterror police here are still hunting for other young men thought to have  been recruited by the spy ring. The last attempted attack by Iran's Quds Force  in Kenya, police say, was back in 2012. That was when two Iranian nationals were  arrested with 15 kg of RDX explosives in the coastal resort town of Mombasa.  Both have since been sentenced to life in prison.    Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu said at the time that he believed they  were targeting Israeli interests here in Kenya. So far, no reaction from Tehran  on these allegations -- Robyn Kriel, CNN, Nairobi, Kenya.       
KINKADE: New details about the suspected gunman in a women's health clinic massacre. The comments he reportedly made to investigators may reveal a possible  motive for the attack. That story just ahead.               
KINKADE: Welcome back. Now to the latest in the shooting at a Planned Parenthood women's health clinic in the U.S. A law enforcement official tells CNN the  suspected gunman mentioned baby parts to investigators. He also reportedly  expressed anti-abortion and anti-government views in police interviews following  his arrest.    Planned Parenthood faced backlash earlier this year after an anti- abortion  group released videos alleging that the organization was selling fetal organs.  Critics have discredited the videos, calling them heavily edited and misleading.    Planned Parenthood released a statement concerning the suspect. The organization  says eyewitnesses confirmed that he was motivated by opposition to safe and  legal abortion.    They went on to say that this is an appalling act of violence targeting access  to health care and terrorizing skilled and dedicated health care professionals.  The U.S. attorney general Loretta Lynch called the attack "a crime against  women."    CNN's Dan Simon spoke with a woman who was held hostage inside the clinic. She  said she was there for an ultrasound when the gunman opened fire.       
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: When you saw the gunman outside, what did he look like?   
KENTANYA CRAION, HELD HOSTAGE INSIDE COLORADO CLINIC: Looked like he had no remorse and that this was just a game to him.    I ran down the hall. I tried to open one door. It was locked. I opened another  door. And there was two people there. One was a nurse and one was an actual  patient.    When I heard around two, the second gunshots, you could clearly tell it was in  the building. It was near, it was close.    One of the ladies beside me started screaming. I had to tell her, remain calm,  everything's fine. Because, like I said, the gunshots were there, as clear as  day, you could hear it.    We actually had a gun bullet go through our wall, it came through one and went  through the other and you could see the gunpowder and smell it. And it was just  frightening at that point. We all just wanted to get out.    About, I'd say 30, 45 minutes later, a police officer had contacted one of us.  And he let us know that he's coming, they're coming to get us. He wanted to know  what end of Planned Parenthood we were in.    He explained the procedures on how we would know it was him. And then after that  phone call, maybe 20, 15 minutes after that, you hear people walking in the  hall. Then we heard the procedure. And we opened the door. And there was a SWAT  team.   
SIMON: I know this was a sensitive topic with your boyfriend. You haven't heard from him.    What do you think?    What do you think may have gone on or happened?   
CRAION: I'm trying to be positive. I don't know if the people that were injured have reached out to their families yet or if he just doesn't know my number. But  I'm just hoping everything's OK.   
SIMON: Because his number may have been stored in your phone? And he may not...  
CRAION: Right. Exactly. I mean, I've called his phone like --      
CRAION: -- when it was happening, I called him, I texted him, there was no reply that his phone was active. And at a certain point my sister had called him. She  heard someone pick up, and then they hung up twice, and then after that his  phone has just been dead ever since.       
KINKADE: We don't know yet if she has made contact with her boyfriend. Police say they won't release the victim's identities until Monday.    We are also learning more about the police officer killed in Friday's attack.  Police in Colorado Springs held a vigil on Saturday for Officer Garrett Swasey.  Here's Sara Ganim.   
SARA GANIM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Officer Garrett Swasey was a loving father of two, a former championship ice skater and a leader  in his church. He was also a devoted police officer, killed Friday in the line  of duty when a man opened fire at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado  Springs.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The shooter is shooting at officers now.  
GANIM: Forty-four-year-old Swasey was an officer for the University of Colorado, Colorado Springs campus. He was on duty Friday when he heard the  call of shots fired and rushed to the scene.   
KURT AICHELE, CO-PASTOR, HOPE CHAPEL: I've known him for about 10 years and throughout that entire time, watched him faithfully serve others and place  others before himself in nearly every situation.   
GANIM: Kurt Aichele is a pastor with Swasey at his church was there when Swasey's wife had to tell their two young children what happened to their  dad.   
AICHELE: The cries and the sobs of her children learning that their daddy was never returning is something that will probably be etched in my mind for the  rest of my life.   
GANIM: Swasey was born in Melrose, Massachusetts, a graduate of Melrose High School, the mayor there saying, "As a class of 1989 graduate, I  remember him to be a kind and caring young man with many friends dedicated to  his skating career and excelling at all areas."    A six-year veteran of the police force, law enforcement was his second career,  after retiring from figure skating. He competed in the 1995 national  championships and won a junior national title in 1992 in Orlando.   
CHRISTINE FOWLER BINDER, FORMER ICE SKATING PARTNER: Garrett is or was the most selfless person I knew. Always there as kind of my confidant, my brother. He put  up with me.   
GANIM: His skating partner, Christine Fowler Binder, talked to Swasey's mother on the phone.   
BINDER: She just wanted me to say that, to remind everyone that, you know, Garrett died in the line of duty, protecting everyone in our country, and that  there's no time that he ever would not have done that.   
GANIM: In the early 1990s, Swasey moved to Colorado Springs to train at the Olympic Training Center. Friends at the church where he led groups and played  guitar say he defined himself through his faith.   
SCOTT DANTENVILLE, CO-PASTOR: Here's a man who stands on principle, loves Christ, and obviously, you know, he might not be in alignment with the abortion  industry but he would be willing to go in and lay down his life for those  people.   
GANIM: Sara Ganim, CNN, New York.      
KINKADE: You are watching CNN NEWSROOM. We will be right back with a little more on the latest stories from around the world. Stay with us.                   
KINKADE: Welcome back. A well-known American photographer has been capturing life in Cuba for over 20 years and now is getting to see the country change. Our  Patrick Oppmann reports from Havana.       
PETER TURNLEY, PHOTOGRAPHER: When I make a photograph I'm not trying to knock someone over the head and tell them what they're supposed to think. I want to  offer them a chance to feel what I felt.   
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Peter Turnley hunts for an iconic image to make in the broken-down neighborhood of Central Havana.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:.  
OPPMANN: One of the world's best-known living photo journalists, Turnley as of late has turned his lens on Cuba.   
TURNLEY: One of the things that I think is a reality of our world today is with globalization: so often wherever we do go, things all look the same. But one of  the beautiful things about Cuba is that's not the case.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:.  
OPPMANN: Turnley happens upon Cuba senior citizens exercising in a vacant lot and goes to work while dancing with his new friends. It's a  spontaneous, joyous moment, the kind that keeps bringing Turnley back to the  island.   
TURNLEY: For me this is a beautiful lesson of life. And it's the way that I would love to live life.   
OPPMANN: Turnley's life for decades was centered on capturing the image that made far-ranging in-complexconflicts understandable on a human  level. From the fall of the Soviet Union to the Gulf War to the end of apartheid  in South Africa, Turnley was there. But during a 1989 visit to Havana, Turnley  caught the Cuba bug.   
TURNLEY: I had a sense that change was underfoot. So I've made 20 trips here now in the last four years. So for me this has been -- this sense of change has been  present now for quite a while. I'm grateful that I have a sense that my timing  was right and that I was a part of this moment of change.   
OPPMANN: Turnley has released a new book of his Cuba photographs and, in November, inaugurated an exhibit of his work in Havana's premier art  museum.    It's the first of its kind for an American photographer, museum officials say,  since the Cuban revolution.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:.   "He goes to the essence of human drama," she says, "the daily life in Cuba. And  with his photos he makes a portrait, a landscape that is very human, respectful  and sensitive of the Cuban reality."    As the thawed relations continues between Cuba and the U.S., Turnley says he  will continue to capture his moment.   
TURNLEY: And Cuba is one of the places where I've been where, every time I leave, I have a sense of being offered a really beautiful lesson in life. I  think what is transcendental about Cuba in the midst of this moment of change is  the spirit of the Cuban people.    I actually only hope that the change will be --       
TURNLEY: -- as kind to Cuba as it has, as Cubans have been to me.  
OPPMANN: Patrick Oppmann, CNN, Havana.      
KINKADE: Scientists believe they have a new clue to solve a mystery from the 3,000 years ago. That's when Queen Nefertiti vanished after ruling Egypt for 12  years. A British archeologist says her remains could be in a chamber behind King  Tut's tomb.    Experts are now analyzing thermal scanning that revealed an empty spot between  the walls. Work inside the tomb won't begin until all that data from the radar  and infrared devices are analyzed by Japanese experts. Nefertiti, her  not-so-modest name means "a beautiful woman has come."    Sunday marks the 14th anniversary of former Beatle George Harrison's death. He  wrote one of the most memorable hits on the album, "Abbey Road." Take a listen.       
KINKADE: Who doesn't love that song?   Harrison frequently had to take the back seat in songwriting behind Paul  McCartney and John Lennon but his album, "All Things Must Pass," was first to  reach number one by a solo Beatle 45 years ago. It was considered Harrison's  turn to speak and it became his most successful album.    That does it for this edition of CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Lynda Kinkade. I will be back  after the break with another hour of news from right around the world.   
