    
HIGHLIGHT: There is no evidence linking the suspects to ISIS. ISIS confirmed that the couple were their supporters and not fighters.     
 BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN HOST: All right. Breaking right now, FBI director James Comey and attorney general Loretta Lynch are making a statement right now  about the investigation in San Bernardino. CNN cameras were there. We will bring  it to you as soon as we get it. But again, just to reiterate from FBI and that  news are just last hour, saying they are indeed investigating this as an act of  terrorism.    Paul Cruickshank, let me bring you in, our CNN terrorism analyst and editor  in-chief of the CTC Sentinel.    On the piece of information that you broke on our air, I want you to reiterate  the point to me that ISIS now, as we are hearing, you know, possible  self-radicalization specifically on behalf of this wife in this attack. ISIS is  referencing this attack. What have they said?   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: That's right, Brooke. The news agency which is jihadi news agency linked to ISIS, which includes exclusive  content from ISIS, commenting on this saying that these were two supporters of  the Islamic state, but they did not use the word fighters. They used fighters to  refer to the Paris attacks, which they did in the same statement saying those  were ISIS fighters, but saying these were ISIS supporters in this case.    Now their claim actually was put out two-and-a-half hours after CNN were the  first to break the story about this Facebook pledge. So they were reacting to  the CNN reporting to the other reporting that then followed after CNN to make  this claim. There's no detail that's not in the reporting put out by CNN and  other media outlets. So they are reacting to events just like the rest of us.    It does not seem, at this point, that there's any evidence this they had any  foreknowledge of this attack. And so, that's a very interesting data point in  this investigation, Brooke.   
BALDWIN: You mentioned Facebook. Let's be clear for people who are watching who may not know what we're talking about. Here's the other piece of information  that has come out. Apparently, this wife of this murderous duo mid-attack on  Wednesday jumps on Facebook, pledges allegiance to the head of ISIS Abu Bakr  al-Baghdadi.    Here's my question to you. Because when you think of women as let's say  terrorists, you generally think of how they are brainwashed by the men, but it's  possible, and I imagine this is a threat the FBI is really looking into, that  she was leading this.   
 CRUICKSHANK: Kind of playing the lady Macbeth role, perhaps, encouraging, instigating, radicalizing. That's certainly a possibility that the  FBI field team on the ground in California are leaving very open and are  investigating, you know. Could she have been the one who was more gung who about  this. Time will tell in the investigation. But I have interviewed female jihadis  before who have been wearing the trousers, so to speak, in the relationship, who  have sort of sent their husbands off to be quote-unquote "men" and to work with  Al-Qaeda or other terrorists groups. So certainly there's some precedent for  this. And we have seen a number of husband/wife teams over the years when it  comes to Islamists terrorism. We will all remember back in January  and her companionbeing involved.   
BALDWIN: Paul, let me jump out of this and go to James Comey and Loretta Lynch here, FBI, U.S. attorney speaking on what happened in San Bernardino.   
LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for coming over to join the directors' briefing today. All of this will be his  briefing. As many of you know, the news from San Bernardino continues to evolve.  And obviously, we now have seen the names and faces of those victims, of those  the fallen and the injured. And as always, our hearts go out to them and let's  keep them in our prayers. Not just those who did lose their lives, but also  those who were injured in this it including our law enforcement officials.    As we have always told you about this matter, it is an evolving investigation.  We also told you we would keep you informed about this investigation. Just  recently there was a press conference in the local area with the assistant  director in charge of the Los Angeles office providing more operational details.  The director is going to give you a further briefing as well.    As you saw from that and as we indicated yesterday, the FBI has taken the lead  in had this investigation. They continue to work with our local partners who are  outstanding partners also along with the ATF and U.S. marshals as well as we  continue to investigate this. There's been a lot of new information that has  come to light and the director is going to give you more insight. Thank you for  being here today.   
JAMES COMEY, DIRECTOR, FBI: Thank you, Madame attorney general.   Let me begin by echoing the general attorney's remarks. Our hearts continue to  ache for the people lost and wounded in San Bernardino and their families. And I  also want to say a word of gratitude and say how impressed we were with the  response of local law enforcement in San Bernardino. They were simply amazing.  We are all very lucky that really good people become police officers in this  country.    And then I want to also say a word of thanks to the folks we don't talk about  much, which are the people who rendered emergency care and the aid. The EMTs,  the docs, the nurses, the victim specialist. Those are the angels of our  business and don't get the thanks they deserve. So thank you to them.    We are here today because we want to make sure you understand that this is now a  federal terrorism investigation led by the FBI. And the reason for that is that  the investigation so far has developed indications of radicalization by the  killers and of potential inspiration by foreign terrorist organizations. And we  are spending a tremendous amount of time, as you might imagine, over the last 48  hours trying to understand the motives of these killers and trying to understand  every detail of their lives.    We are going through a very large volume of electronic evidence. This is  electronic evidence that these killers tried to e destroy and tried to conceal  from us that we now have and are exploiting to try to understand them. We are  keeping our minds open as we always try to do. I know that there are a lot of  good questions that folks want answers for quick, but I hope you know we aspire  to do it quickly, but we aspire to do it well and do it carefully.    There's a lot of evidence in this case that doesn't quite make sense. And so,  we're trying to be very thoughtful to understand it and to make sense of it so  we understand the full extent of what we have here.    Let me offer you, though, a couple specifics on the investigation. First, our  investigation to date, and again, it's only two days old, so far we have no  indication that these killers are part of an organized larger group or part of a  cell. There's no indication that they are part of a network. Again, I quickly  add it is early. We are still working very hard to understand. But I want you to  know that so far we don't see such indications.    Second, there are nothing in our holdings about these two killers. I have seen  reporting where folks have focused on reports that they were in contact - at  least one of the killers was in contact with people who had been the subject of  FBI investigations. Either investigations that were closed or that were still  open. I would urge you not to make too much of that.    There were no contacts between either of the killers and subjects of our  investigations that were of such significance that it raised these killers on to  our radar screen. We are obviously looking very closely at those contacts, but I  would not want to over index on that just yet. It is, as I said, 48 hours old.  There is much about this that doesn't make sense to even - for even those of us  who do this for a living. That is the reason we have hundreds of people running  down leads all over the world on this and spending tremendous amount of time as  we sit here trying to understand the electronic record around these two killers.    Let me close by saying something the attorney general and I have said before.  And that is we know that this is very unsettling for the people of the United  States where we hope you will do is not let fear become disabling, but to  instead try to channel it into an awareness of your surroundings, to get you to  a place where you are living your life, but if you see something that doesn't  make sense, you say something to somebody. When we look back over our cases over  the last 10, 15 years, in almost every case, we find that somebody saw something  where there was a family member or friend or a co-worker and didn't say  something to law enforcement. Wrote an innocent narrative over facts that were  making them feel uncomfortable or the hair stand up on their necks. Please don't  do that.    We have worked very, very hard since 9/11 to get ourselves to a place where if  you tell a police officer or deputy sheriff or call the FBI and say, you know, I  saw something next door that seems off or I saw something online that seems off,  it will get to the right people and we will investigate it quickly and  responsibly. We investigate in secret so we don't smear innocent people. We  don't run over and bang on your neighbor's door. If you say something, we  investigate. If there was nothing there, no harm done. If there was something  there, great harm may be avoided.    So we would ask you, please channel that sense of fear into something healthy.  Just an awareness of your surroundings and let us do the work you pay us to do,  which is to investigate and fight terrorism while you live the lives that are so  wonderful in this great country of ours. Thank you for this and we'll take your  questions.   
 BALDWIN: Sorry, that was loud. OK. So that was James Comey, the chief of the FBI. And Paul Cruickshank, I still have you with us, our CNN terrorism  analyst here.    To me, the headline there, it doesn't appear - and again, you know, caveat, it  is just a two day old investigation and said it appears these two killers in San  Bernardino aren't part of any sort of cell or organized network. Your response  to that.   
CRUICKSHANK: And that's very important indeed. Because if that is really the case, then the immediate danger has now gone away. That was consistent with what  the assistant director of the FBI and Los Angeles area was saying just a few  hours ago that there's no immediate terrorism threat, specific immediate  terrorism threat in the United States that suggests they have some confidence  that it was just these two and no more who were involved.    They are also saying they don't believe that part of a wider network or cell.  And I think you can read into that. They don't believe that they were recruited  physically by a terrorist group overseas by ISIS. They didn't get recruited and  get marching orders and meetings in the Middle East. These are self-radicalized  is-inspired rather than ISIS directed.    And so far, the message from ISIS land is much the same. These were two  supporters of ours. They weren't fully fledged fighters. And so, we are starting  to get perhaps a sense of the scope of this, which were two individuals acting  autonomously, but on behalf of the Islamic state. Not people who got training  necessarily overseas, but perhaps learned how to make these primitive pipe bombs  over the Internet. And of course, we all know how easy it is in the United  States to buy extraordinarily powerful weapons 
. BALDWIN: To steal a phrase fromour colleague, Bobby Gosh, they were freelancing. And I think it's just so extraordinary to point out, as he was with me before, and as we have spoken  multiple times about this, when you think of Al-Qaeda, it was terrorism 1.0. You  have to train in a place like Yemen or other countries and then you would, you  know, carry out these very precise specific attacks. And here with this  terrorism 2.0 and ISIS, it's just sort of either we're going to give you this  direction and you do this or, hey, if you feel inspired by our crazy ideology,  go out and kill people, which is precisely what happened in California it sounds  like.   
 CRUICKSHANK: That's right, Brooke. But don't discount terrorism 1.0 because we just saw that play out in Paris with ISIS taking a chapter out of the  Al-Qaeda playbook. There's now real concern that ISIS is aiming to hit the  United Kingdom next. Two days ago the United Kingdom took that vote to launch  airstrikes against ISIS in Syria. There's specific intelligence that British  ISIS operatives have been recruited and tasked with returning to the United  Kingdom to launch an attack.    There are other countries in Europe ISIS has also threatened. Notably Germany,  Belgium, Netherlands, all these countries participating in airstrikes or some  form of support in the anti-ISIS coalition, Brooke.   
BALDWIN: OK. Paul Cruickshank, as always, your expertise invaluable to us. One of our terrorism analysts, thank you so much, Paul.    A quick break. We will be right become.       
 COMEY: There is nothing in our holdings about these two killers. I have seen reporting where folks have focused on reports that they were in  contact -- at least one of the killers was in contact with people who had been  the subject of FBI investigations, either investigations that were closed or  that were still open. I would urge you not to make too much of that.    There were no contacts between either the killers or the subjects of our  investigations. There was such a significance that it raised our killers up onto  our radar screen. We are obviously looking closely at those contacts but I would  not want you to over index on that just yet. It is as I said --       
BALDWIN: OK. So that was FBI director James Comey, just speaking a moment ago sitting next to Loretta -- speaking next to the attorney general there. And I  think it's really important what he said in that, you know, and again, this is  two days into the investigation. But he is saying don't read too much in to the  fact that perhaps as this two killers, this husband and wife duo had been in  contact with someone who had been investigated domestically by the FBI. He's  saying don't read a lot into that. Paul Cruickshank, I understand I still have  you with me, one of our CNN terror analysts. I think it's important, though, to  for folks just joining us go back through what was said by Comey and that was  this.    As they are trying to understand the motives why these two would want to do this  and murder 14 people and injured 21 others, he said that this was the biggie we  were just discussing, that there was indication they were part of a cell or any  other larger organized terrorist network or organization. And then again, you  know, it's this notion of if you see something, say something. It's frightening  as we were just discussing obviously what's happened, what's continued to happen  in these mass shootings, he is saying don't let fear become disabling.    To you, what are some of your questions as you're listening to the FBI here dig  into this?   
CRUICKSHANK: Well, how were they radicalized is going to be an absolutely key question here whether they get all these materials for the pipe bombs to what  degree were they in touch with people who were on the radar screen. I mean, what  the FBI is saying these two weren't really on the radar screen but were  communicating with people on the radar screen. And after these attacks, they  were able it would seem to go back and figure out that they were indeed  communicating with people that they knew about.    So they will be looking at all those kind of things. They will be examining the  trips that they made overseas to Saudi Arabia, to Pakistan, I think just in  2014. But from what they are saying that they are not part of a wider network or  group, that suggests they have quite a lot of confidence at this point that they  didn't meet established terrorists outfits while they were in Pakistan or Saudi  Arabia or anywhere else or at least they don't have any firm evidence suggesting  that to be the case at this point.    This seems more in the ISIS-inspired column. But ISIS is really inspiring these  people. And part of the force of inspiration that they have is that they control  all of this area in the Middle East in Syria, Iraq and Libya. And in the eyes of  their followers gives them a huge amount of religious legitimacy.    And so, you know, one of the things that western governments can do to try to  stop horrible days like this is to take away this ISIS safe haven, this pseudo  ISIS state, Brooke.   
BALDWIN: Right. Right. Hopefully there's a lot that can be done but again, also hearing from the L.A. based FBI agent earlier today saying indeed they're  investigating this as an act of terrorism.    Paul Cruickshank, thank you so much.    If in fact it is, this would be the first is-inspired deadly plot carried out on  U.S. soil.    Quick break. We will be right back.   
 BALDWIN: I want to leave you with these words from one of the heroes in San Bernardino. A hero whose job it is to protect that community. You are  about to hear from one of the first officers who arrived on the scene who had  indeed trained for that day. But it is tough to imagine what could have truly  prepared him for what he saw.       
LT. MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: The situation was surreal. It was something I don't think, again, we prepare for and they tried to. An active  shooter we talk about sensory overload. They just try to throw everything at you  to prepare you for dealing with that. What you're seeing, what you're hearing,  what you're smelling. And it was all of that and more. It was unspeakable the  carnage that we were seeing, the number of people who were injured. And  unfortunately already dead. And the pure panic on the face of those individuals  that were still in need and needing to be safe.    The initial 50 people did not want to come to us. They were fearful. And they  were in the back hallway area. And that actually heightened my concern that --  and my fear that potentially the suspects were in that hallway holding them  hostage and waiting for us to enter into the hallway. We had to tell them  several times come to us, come to us, come to us. And ultimately they did. And  once that first person took the motions forward, it opened the flood gates and  everybody wanted to come and get away from that as quickly as possible.    You know, we have taken a lot of hits lately. Some justified, much of it not  justified. And it takes a toll. It takes a toll on all cops because it's hard  being labeled and hard being branded as, you know, being rogue or, you know --  and I guarantee you that no cop comes into this job with the mindset that, oh,  great, now I have ultimate power to be corrupt and to violate people's rights.  There are cops who go astray. But overwhelmingly the vast majority of officers  and when I say vast majority I'm talking 99.5 percent of the officers go out and  they do the job to protect the public. And yesterday just reminded me of that.  And it is just solidified that again in my heart and in my mindset. And for  that, I'm thankful.       
BALDWIN: And we are thankful for folks like Lieutenant Madden. I'm Brooke Baldwin. Thanks for being with me.    "The LEAD" starts now.   
