    
HIGHLIGHT: Breaking news from the FBI during a press conference that they are, based on mounting evidence, investigating this murderous attack as an act of  terrorism, and investigators are closer to uncovering a possible motive in the  shooting rampage at the Inland Regional Center, and three officials close to the  investigation say they believe the female attacker, the wife, Tashfeed Malik,  posted on Facebook pledging allegiance to the leader of ISIS, Abu Bakr al  Baghdadi, while this massacre was unfolding, and she and her husband, Syed  Farook, killed 14 people and wounded 21 others by opening fire at this Inland  Regional Center, and investigators are saying, quote, "This is looking more and  more like self-radicalization." One of the first officers to arrive on the scene  of the shooting this Wednesday in San Bernardino says he absolutely can't  believe what he saw, and he called it, quote, "unspeakable carnage," and  Lieutenant Mike Madden, with the San Bernardino Police Department, said he and  three other officers were operating under the assumption that the shooters were  still inside as they carefully entered this center, and he said he had trained  for events like this, but what he found was, quote, "surreal."     
 DAVID BOWDICH, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, FBI, LOS ANGELES OFFICE: That's where we're going. That takes time. That's not a three-day process.    Yes, ma'am?   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: I was told they were in a nearby trash can found by investigators.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: We don't know. That's what we hope to build is a working theory and then ultimately some sort of a design of what we believe they were going to do,  but again, day three, we just don't know.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: December 7th is Monday  
BOWDICH: Pardon me?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: We don't know yet.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: It's certainly a possibility, but we don't know yet.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: We are still exploiting the data. I have not seen it yet. We are still exploiting that and that will take time. I truly believe that's going to be the  potential golden nuggets, but we don't know yet.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: December 7th is Monday. Do you have any information that there may have been something planned for that particular day and for some  reason it got moved up?   
BOWDICH: December 7th, you said?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Yeah.  
BOWDICH: Yes, I don't know any reason it was on that day. Remember, there was a Christmas party that took place inside that room. So you had a lot of people.  You had a lot of management. You had a lot of employees in that room at that  point.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: He was not under active surveillance. I'm not aware and do not believe there was any type to have an investigation pending on him.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Did his name come up? I'm thinking similar to the Boston bombing.   
BOWDICH: Yes, and I don't have any information that indicates that.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Are you concerned about the press being in the apartment today? There was a man there who took the landlord away and said he didn't have  permission to let people into the apartment. The apartment was re-boarded up.  Any concerns about that being entered?   
BOWDICH: You're going to have to repeat that. I'm sorry.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Any concerns about the press entering the town home even though you completed your investigation?   
BOWDICH: Once we turn that location back over to the occupants of that residence or once we board it up, anyone who goes in at that point has nothing to do with  us.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: You say this is an act of terrorism. Does this mean this is the first time, if you conclude that it's is, this is the first time is  attacked America?   
BOWDICH: I think you're taking a leap. We're not there. What I'm confirming is we are currently investigating this case as an act of terrorism.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: I'm sorry?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Were they in telephonic communications with the U.S. or elsewhere?   
BOWDICH: We know they were in conversations with people here in the U.S. I'm not aware of the overseas connections yet. We're working with foreign partners on  that.       
BOWDICH: I can only hear one at a time, guys.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: The family and their lawyers, what do you have to say to that?   
BOWDICH: The question, the veracity of -- not unusual that they would.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: That's their official website.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  
BOWDICH: I'm not surprised. I have not heard of that, but I'm not surprised if they would claim. Maybe they did, maybe they didn't. It only helps them to be  able to attach themselves to an act like this. I don't know the answer.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Did someone give them the rifles?  
BOWDICH: There's a person -- we don't know -- let me go back on that one. There's some differentiations there. There is a person that we know of their  location who purchased those weapons, but I'm going o to let had ATF answer the  questions on the guns because that's what they are here to do.   
BOWDICH: The person is not under arrest at this point.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: So they are in custody?  
BOWDICH: They are not under arrest at this point.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Why do you think they stopped shooting?  
BOWDICH: I don't know the answer.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: The Facebook post, did they pledge allegiance to ISIS or al Baghdadi? Any other people connected specifically with any known terrorism  posts?   
BOWDICH: I'm aware of the Facebook post you're mentioning. I saw the same thing you did. We don't know what's there yet. We're still continuing to look into  that.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Mark Zuckerberg confirms that post had been made and there it has been made as the attack was starting.   
BOWDICH: I know it was in a general time line and, yes, there was a pledge of allegiance.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: The dynamic of the marriage, there's a lot of curiosity there. And some people are saying that perhaps the wife may have influenced him.  Do you have any insight?   
 BOWDICH: I have been asked that and I don't know the answer whether she influenced him or not. Being a husband myself, we're all influenced to an  extent, but I don't know the answer.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Does that influence your belief that this was an act of terrorism after learning more about her?   
BOWDICH: We're investigating it as an act of terrorism for good reason.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Had the FBI know of her prior to this?  
BOWDICH: Pardon me?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Had the FBI know of her -- aware of her before? Was she under investigation prior to this?   
BOWDICH: We did not have her under investigation previously.   I'm going to take three more questions and then end it.       
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Near the center or near the compound?  
BOWDICH: I believe they were found near the townhouse.  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Is it true they were flying under the radar?  
BOWDICH: Pardon me?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Were you concerned they were flying under the radar? That you didn't know they were active?   
BOWDICH: Of course, I'm concerned. Any one of us would love to have stopped this act. When you go into a crime scene like that, it's one of the most heinous  things you will ever see.   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: No awareness that you weren't tracking them on your radar?   
BOWDICH: Of course, I'm concerned. We didn't know. There's nothing we have seen yet that would have triggered us to know.       
BOWDICH: Yes, ma'am?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Do you believe in the existence of a cell?  
BOWDICH: Pardon me?  
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Do you believe in the existence of the cell?  
BOWDICH: We don't know. What I can tell you is we are not aware of any further threats in the U.S. at this time.    And I want to go back to your point, ma'am. You said the government spends a lot  of money on surveillance. We are also -- the FBI is also a federal law  enforcement agency that is bound by federal law so we don't do wide-sweeping  massive surveillance without legal process.    Last question.    Yes, ma'am   
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Now listening to this, that this is, indeed, an act of terror. What in practical terms does that mean for them?   
BOWDICH: So what I would say, first of all, I think this community, I'm going to leave that to the chief and sheriff to talk about. They are the true protectors  of this community.    I would say to this community, you have been incredibly resilient. We are with  you. We stand by you. We are focused. The FBI's number one mandate is to protect  the homeland from attack. We will absolutely engage whenever we see potential  threats.    As the director has said, we have a number of terrorism investigations across  the country currently that are going on. That does include extensive  surveillance.    So what I would tell the community, to answer your question completely, I would  tell them continue to do what you do. If you see things that are concerning,  push them up to local law enforcement immediately. If they rise to a certain  level or if you want to push it to both the FBI and local law enforcement, feel  free to do that. These are your protectors.       
BOWDICH: But do as you do normally. Go about your day. Do not let this cause mass hysteria. We're not there. We're not there at all. We have a long-term very  complex investigation that we have to complete. That's going to take time and a  lot of energy and a lot of hours and a lot of agency expertise. But I assure the  -- I assure the American public we will do everything in our power within the  law to get that done.    Thank you for your time.    Next, I'd like to introduce Sheriff John McMahon.   
JOHN MCMAHON, SHERIFF, SAN BERNARDINO SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT: Very good questions. That's why we're here today. The primary, my primary responsibility and the  primary responsibility of the law enforcement leaders you see behind me is to  ensure the safety of the public that we serve. You have already heard there's  apparently evidence to suggest that there's a terrorist connection to this  event. We have no known credible threats to the communities that we serve. I  would ask that the community remain vigilant. Don't hesitate to report any  suspicious activity to the local law enforcement. We have added additional  resources as has my partners from law enforcement that stand behind me to ensure  that we have the staff necessary to investigate and to protect the communities  that we serve. We have nothing to suggest there's anything additional associated  with this event, but we remain partnered up with the law enforcement from the  FBI, ATF, Homeland Security, and if any threats come about that appear to be  credible or not, we will fully investigate those to help ensure that it the  public that we serve is absolutely safe. I will echo what David Bowdich  suggested, that this is a team effort. We all have to work together as a team to  address situations of this magnitude. We remain committed to working with the  FBI, our local partners, as well as our federal partners to ensure that the  resources that are need are applied to make sure we investigate everything  possible and keep the citizens that we serve safe.    Thank you.   
 UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Sheriff, Sheriff, are you concerned there was no credible threat and then this occurred and now we're back to an environment  with no known credible threat and could San Bernardino or any other town in the  country be facing the same kind of thing happening an hour from now?   
MCMAHON: Certainly, that's the possibility. But crimes across our county and across our state often times occur without any notice. You saw how the men and  women of this law enforcement agency as well as the partners that we work with  in our region performed two days ago. Considering how they perform, and address  the issue, I truly believe that we are prepared to deal with whatever threat or  incident occurs. Law enforcement is staffed up, as I suggested. Our local law  enforcement leaders remain in constant contact with one another. And as I  suggested, my top priority as well as those that stand behind me is the safety  of the public that we serve.    Thank you.       
BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, so many questions left unanswered. You heard first from the San Bernardino police chief, then from FBI and then the  sheriff.    Let me go back to a couple points that the FBI made. Number one, making it clear  yesterday there was sort of this maybe workplace violence. Not mincing any  words, saying based upon mounting evidence, they are investigating this  murderous attack in San Bernardino as an act of terrorism. Mentioned two cell  phones that had been found in a nearby trash can. They had been crushed so they  are gathering data hoping that will lead to the answer of why. And also  mentioning some sort of phone communication of the murderous couple and another  individual that the FBI has been investigating.    I have Paul Cruickshank. He has stayed with me here, CNN terrorism analyst.    Paul, a lot of the questions, too, being over this Facebook post. Apparently  this wife mid-attack pledging her allegiance to the leader of ISIS. So the  questions were was she in direct communication with ISIS or was she  self-radicalized. Do you think ISIS would make it clear in the acknowledgment  they would take credit for it if they had been directing her?   
PAUL CRUICKSHANK, CNN TERRORISM ANALYST: I think if there was something more than just inspiration, I think ISIS would claim that. So far they do not appear  to be claiming that. We have had a statement put out by a news agency supportive  of link to is, a lot of their content is provided. And this news agency saying  that these were two supporters of the Islamic State, not to fighters of the  Islamic State. They have described the Paris attack as fighters of the Islamic  State. So, so far, these media organizations linked to ISIS not going the full  way and saying we did this all the way. We had had knowledge of it before. The  information they are putting out is just tracking the media reporting and media  first reported about this pledge of allegiance. So that's where we are in terms  of the terrorist group's comment on this. They are going to be investigating all  of this. There are concerns that could be a wider cell here. But as the FBI  representative was just saying, they don't have evidence right now of any  credible, immediate threat. That suggests that the immediate danger has gone  away for the moment, they hope.   
 BALDWIN: They hope.   Paul Cruickshank, thank you so much.    Quick break. We'll be right back.   
BALDWIN: We're back with special live coverage here on CNN. I'm Brooke Baldwin.   We just heard breaking now from the FBI that they are based on mounting evidence  they are investigating this murderous attack as an act of terrorism.  Investigators are closer to uncovering a possible motive in the shooting rampage  there in that center. Three officials close to the investigation say they  believe the female attacker here, the wife, posted on Facebook pledging  allegiance to the leader of ISIS, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, while this massacre was  unfolding. She and her husband killed 14 people and wounded 21 others by opening  fire at this Inland Regional Center, a place that helps folks with special needs  in this community. There were also explosive devices found inside that building  and a detonator in their getaway car. They both were shot and killed in a  massive police shootout hours later. Investigators are also telling CNN, quote,  "This is looking more and more like self-radicalization."    With that, Jeffrey Simon, with me, a terror expert, the author of "Lone Wolf  Terrorism, Understanding the Growing Threat."    Jeffrey, you were just listening to the FBI giving that briefing a moment ago.  So it seems like from how they are answering certain questions perhaps not  directed by ISIS but ISIS inspired. It would be the first deadly ISIS-inspired  attack on U.S. soil.   
 JEFFREY SIMON, TERROR EXPERT & AUTHOR: Right. We have had a lot of case cans where individuals have indicated a sympathy with ISIS or posted  various things on Facebook and things along those lines. What separates this is  the carnage that was involved. But we have also had individuals who have tried  to make the trip over to Syria to join ISIS. If this was ISIS directed, they  would have jumped on it and been boasting about it because it would have been  the first time they were able to launch an attack in the U.S. But it still adds  to the fear element of this global reach of ISIS.   
BALDWIN: Questions about who they were in communication with as we heard from the FBI questions about a trip overseas the year before last. What's curious to  me is you have the female. It's not only one shooter, it's two. And it's the  female here posting what she did on Facebook. Is that not rare?   
SIMON: It's not that odd to have the female as a lead terrorist. We have had groups that were led by a female. What is really odd is the choice of the first  element of this attack, his co-workers. It seemed with all the ammunition and  everything they have with the pipe bombs, they were planning something bigger  and something that happened that made them decide this is where they were going  to launch the first part and not have it a suicide attack and try something  else. If you're going to have all that weaponry, you would have thought a  shopping mall. There's a personal grudge or personal elements that the husband  had with his co-workers.   
BALDWIN: We don't know. That's part of what the FBI and San Bernardino police are trying to figure out.    What more about this -- I think that one of the pieces that I'm curious about  too is that you have those -- I was just in Paris directly instructed by is  command if you will in Syria. You have these people who appear self-radicalized.  I'm left wondering how many others could there be who are buying into this  ideology who want to reek havoc in the U.S.   
SIMON: The term "radicalization" has become the buzz word in counterterrorism studies, policy circles and so forth. Nobody really has ---       
BALDWIN: Is there a better word?  
SIMON: No. Nobody really knows yet. It's a way to try to bring some order to this phenomenon, but we don't know, when somebody is talking about doing  something or pledging allegiance to a group, what's the trigger point that they  act violently. There are plenty of people who say things who don't know those  who are radicalized and never going to do a violent act, those who are  radicalized, and once something happens, are going to jump into an act of  violence.   
BALDWIN: I was hearing the words earlier. These "invisible soldiers" that are not on the radar. That's a worrisome thing    Jeff Simon, thank you.    Next, one of the first police officers to arrive there on the scene of the  attack describing what he saw, what he heard. His words, "unspeakable carnage"  in the moments immediately after this horrific shooting, with one priority he  describes, finding the people who carried out that attack. His own words, coming  up next.   
 BALDWIN: One of the first officers to arrive on the scene of the shooting this Wednesday in San Bernardino says he absolutely can't believe what  he saw. This one officer called it, quote, "unspeakable carnage." Lieutenant  Mike Madden, with the San Bernardino Police Department, said he and three other  officers were operating under the assumption that the shooters were still inside  as they carefully entered this center, and he said he had trained for events  like this, but what he found was, quote, "surreal."       
LT. MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: I'll tell you, it was something -- although we train for it, it's something you're never prepared for.  When we got the call -- I oversee dispatch. It's one of my functions and  responsibilities with the police department. And I know my dispatchers. I know  the tone of their voice. I know the severity of calls as they are going out. And  I could hear it in our dispatcher's voice that this was actually happening. This  was a real event. And it was the event that, you know, we have an active shooter  and we have an active shooting going on in our city. And I was nearby. I was  less than a mile away. And I started coming this way. And I realized as I was  getting closer that I was one of the very first units there. Myself and Officer  Shawn Sandovalarrived almost simultaneously and, just out of pure luck,  because the information was evolving so rapidly, it was out of pure luck I  happened to pull into the right location, which was just south of the road that  you see here north of us. It was just south of the building where this tragedy  took place. As I was looking and seeing all of the activity and trying to assess  what was happening, I was informed that there was the location where this was  happening. And I was asking for officers to respond as quickly as possible,  because we had had every belief at that time we had people still being shot  inside of the building. And my goal was to assemble an entry team and enter --   
