    
HIGHLIGHT: French authorities clamping down on activists protesting as 150 world leaders attended U.N. climate summit. Ke'arre Stewart and Jennifer Markovsky  died in Planned Parenthood attack. Ben Carson claimed refugees he talked to  would rather be in Syria than U.S. Donald Trump on his second week defending  comments some Muslim- Americans celebrating during 9/11 attacks. Lakers star  Kobe Bryan to retire at the end of the season. Broncos gave Patriots its first  loss of the season.     
 JIM ACOSTA, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: That's right. And we're expecting these world leaders gathered for this climate summit, Alison, to  observe a moment of silence in memory of the victims of the Paris attacks. And  it was a somber start for President Obama's trip to Paris for this climate  summit. As soon as the president landed in France, he was whisked over to the  Bataclan Theater where he laid a single white rose in memory of the people  killed in the Paris attacks.    The French capital, we can report, is very much on edge this morning in the  aftermath of the attacks on November 13th. Protesters clashed with French  authorities Sunday over new rules that were set to clamp down on large-scale  demonstrations in this city.    There is intense security in place throughout Paris. We saw that last night. I  was there when the president visited the memorial outside of the Bataclan  Theater. This security is in place to protect more than 100 world leaders  gathered here for these climate talks that aren't away right now despite what  happened on November 13th. President Obama and President Xi of China as you  mentioned, they've already met this morning to discuss these climate talks, as  well as the war on ISIS.    President Obama offered his condolences for the Chinese hostage who was killed  by those ISIS. And the leaders gathered here, Alison, are in pursuit of  something rather bold, a climate agreement that would commit nearly every  country on earth to big reductions in carbon emissions over the coming decades.    Climate scientists are not so sure this will be enough to avert the most severe  effects of global warning. But in the view of the White House and this president  you have to start somewhere. But the battle against ISIS is also a very big  topic on the agenda for President Obama. He'll meet with French President  Francois Hollande later on this evening where he'll get an update on Hollande's  meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow last week. There's a  possibility President Obama and Vladimir Putin will meet on the sidelines of the  summit.    No guarantee. They're not supposed to have a bilateral meeting, a former  bilateral meeting, but they could catch up with each other on the sidelines of  this very important climate summit -- Alison 
. KOSIK: Jim, about climate change,you know, past meetings have failed to net a comprehensive policy that all world leaders can agree to. What's really going to be different this time? What can  really come out of this meeting?   
ACOSTA: Well, I think that meeting with President Obama and President Xi was really designed to set the tone for the summit. You know, if you could have the  two biggest economies in the world, the two biggest carbon emitters in the world  coming together as they did last year to hammer out a climate deal that will  curb carbon emissions over the next couple of decades, U.S. and China feel like  so can the rest of the world. And so what they're trying to do is not only get  the big industrial polluters and the big countries' big economies around the  world on the -- on the table with an agreement, they are trying to get some of  these smaller countries to abide by some carbon reduction limits.    And what they're hoping to do is incentivize these smaller countries with some  financial aid, with some investments through public-private partnerships. And  what they're hoping to accomplish by the end of the next couple of weeks is to  have a climate agreement that really commits every country on earth where you  have a process in place where countries can sort of look over each other's  shoulder to make sure that they're holding up their end of the bargain.    It will be short of a treaty. The president won't go back to Congress and try to  get this approved by Republicans up on Capitol Hill. But for the first time, you  know -- you know, in world history, you'll have just about every country on  earth committing to this and the results of that agreement have to be  significant enough in the view of this White House in order to avert rising sea  levels and other big effects of climate change.    So the president feels like this is perhaps the most important thing he'll  accomplish in his remaining months in office. And we'll have to see if he gets  the deal that he's hoping to reach here in Paris -- Alison.   
KOSIK: And it's interesting that the two of the biggest polluters, the United States and China, are setting the tone for the meeting. Hopefully something will  come out o that.    Jim Acosta, thanks so much.   
ROMANS: All right. We're getting new information about what motivated a shooting spree at a Colorado Springs' Planned Parenthood clinic. An attack that killed  three and wounded nine others. Suspect Robert Lewis Dear is set to have his  first court appearance this afternoon via video link.    We're also learning more about two victims in the deadly attack. Ke'arre Stewart  was an Iraq war veteran with two daughters. Jennifer Markovsky was a mother of  two. She had a boy and a girl. She was a K-Mart employee originally from Hawaii.  Police Officer Garrett Swasey also died in the attack.    For more let's get to Dan Simon in Colorado Springs.   
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Christine and Alison, a law enforcement source tells CNN that just after he surrendered the suspect in this case, 57-year-old  Robert Dear, made a reference to, quote, "baby parts." So that's further fueling  this notion that is anti-abortion views was the motivating factor behind the  attack at the Planned Parenthood. But authorities say at this point it is too  early to reach a conclusion.    As for the suspect's background, a portrait is emerging that he was a loner. He  certainly lived in isolation in the middle of Colorado. Before that he lived in  North Carolina in a very small cabin.     In terms of a criminal background, we know that he had some brushes  with law enforcement, but had never been convicted. In 1997, for instance, his  wife at the time accused him of domestic assault. But he was never charged. And  because there is no sort of criminal violent past associated with the suspect,  that's why people like the mayor in this town say it's very hard for law  enforcement to keep tabs on someone like him.       
JOHN SUTHERS, COLORADO SPRINGS MAYOR: We've had examples of this in the past. This guy is kind of shaping up to be a -- like a Ted Kaczynski type character.  Perhaps not quite the loner, but it's very difficult for law enforcement to deal  with individuals like this who don't commit serious crimes and get themselves on  the radar that way. Unless a threat is posed beforehand that they can respond  to.       
SIMON: Well, as authorities work to come up with a firm motive, we know that the suspect actually gave up inside the Planned Parenthood. This was after nearly  six hours and also after an armored police vehicle known as a Bearcat rammed  into the building. The suspect apparently thought he was cornered. He dropped  his weapon and gave up -- Christine and Alison.   
KOSIK: OK, Dan. Thanks for that.   One question hanging over the attack. Whether it will complicate the fight in  Congress over Planned Parenthood. That battle started when an anti-abortion  group began releasing videos that claimed Planned Parenthood profits from the  sale of fetal tissue. Hard line conservatives are pushing for a government  shutdown if federal funding for the group is not cut off.    On Saturday, Democratic Senator Barbara Boxer called for five congressional  investigations of the group to be shutdown. She said it's time to stop the  demonizing and the witch hunt. The head of the Colorado clinic suggested that  fiery anti-abortion political rhetoric played a part in the attack.   
VICKI COWART, PRESIDENT, ROCKY MOUNTAIN PLANNED PARENTHOOD: We've experienced so much hateful language, hateful speech, such a negative  environment has been created around the work that Planned Parenthood does,  around the idea of safe and legal abortion. And we've seen that across the  country from all sorts of speakers in the last few months.    I can't believe that this isn't contributing to some folks mentally unwell or  not. Thinking that it's OK to target Planned Parenthood.       
ROMANS: Many of the 2016 Republican candidates now speaking out against the attack. And they are also maintaining their strong opposition to Planned  Parenthood. They are rejecting that notion you just heard that anti-abortion  rhetoric played any part in this violence.       
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What I would say to anyone who tries to link this terrible tragedy to anyone who opposes abortion or opposes the sale  of body parts is this is typical left-wing tactics.   
MIKE HUCKABEE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What he did is domestic terrorism. And what he did is absolutely abominable. Especially to those of us in the  pro-life movement. Because there's nothing about any of us that would condone or  in any way look the other way at something like this.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is an extremist and this was a man who obviously -- and they said prior to this that he was mentally disturbed.  So he's a mentally disturbed person. There's no question about that.   
DR. BEN CARSON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Let's get away from the rhetoric and talk about the real problem. The real problem is that we have become coarse and  hateful toward each another.       
ROMANS: Democrats Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders were the first presidential candidates to respond to the attacks, offering condolences, supporting Planned  Parenthood, and defending abortion rights.   
KOSIK: Breaking overnight, the University of Chicago cancelling Monday classes after an online threat of gun violence. The university president says he learned  of the threat from FBI counterterrorism officials who say the individual  mentioned a specific area and time. The campus quad at 10:00 a.m. Monday  morning. So the students in campus housing, they are being asked to stay indoors  today as much as possible.   
ROMANS: All right. Time for an EARLY START on your money this morning. European stocks mostly higher making up for earlier losses. U.S. stock futures ticking  higher here. And you know, it's Monday. The Monday after Thanksgiving. That  means it's Cyber Monday. Online sales expected to top $3 billion for the first  time. Up 12 percent from a year ago. That's according to estimates from Adobe.  The holiday, this Cyber Monday has gained more importance for retailers. Big  names like Best Buy, Wal-Mart, and Target are battling to offer the best deals  this year.    Black Friday, the concept of Black Friday is fading. It's still an important  shopping day, but the crowds were smaller this year. More people moving to  online shopping. And guess what, more people shopping throughout the entire  month instead of waiting for Black Friday deals.    You know what I would say this time of year, if you can't pay it off by the end  of January, put it down. Don't buy it in the first place. Don't overspend your  budget. Make a list. Check it twice. That's just my -- you know, I do this every  year.   
 KOSIK: And if you shop online, get free shipping. That's what I do.  
ROMANS: That's right. And check the restocking fees.  
KOSIK: Yes. There you go.   Ben Carson opens up about what he learned about visiting a Syrian refugee camp  in Jordan and Donald Trump doubles down about what he saw on TV on 9/11. The  race for president is intensifying next.   
KOSIK: OK. It's back to the campaign grind for the men and the women who would be president following the Thanksgiving holiday weekend. One Republican hopeful  Ben Carson, he's been brushing up on his foreign policy learning firsthand about  the plight of Syrian refugees while visiting a camp in Jordan.    Joining us to go over all of the latest political buzz, CNN Politics reporter  Eric Bradner.    Good morning to you.   
ERIC BRADNER, CNN POLITICS DIGITAL REPORTER: Good morning.  
KOSIK: So we are watching Ben Carson's sort of on-the-job training, it feels like. Some people making fun of him saying, he's taking field trips now. Let's  listen to what he said and then we'll get your reaction.       
 CARSON: The thing that I really learned here in listening to the refugees themselves is their intense desire to return to their own country and  be repatriated. There are so many people who think that the ideal for everybody  is to come to America and to be settled here. But that is not the ideal for  everybody.   
KOSIK: So, Eric, what do you think? His trip to Jordan, did it help? Did it hurt? It gives you kind of the feeling and the sense that he's sort of  on-the-job training at this point to be president of the United States.   
BRADNER: Yes, Ben Carson has struggled with foreign policy questions lately. And so he's trying to demonstrate a little bit of expertise, sort of put some meat  on the bones here. And what he just said about Syrian refugees is interesting  because he's trying to thread a needle with conservatives. He's trying to appeal  to those who are focused on national security, whose primary concern is making  sure the refugees aren't allowed into the United States.    And he's also trying to reach religious conservatives. Those who have been --  sort of the primary backers of this campaign who are really worried about the  fate of these refugees. Whether they'll be taken care of at all. And so he's  appealing to them by sort of saying no, this is what they want. This is the best  way to sort of care for them.    So it's an interesting strategy given that most of the rest of the Republican  field has focused on no, we don't want the refugees in the United States, and  that's it. But yes, this is Ben Carson sort of trying to develop some expertise  and learn about these issues that he struggled with.   
ROMANS: And certainly the visual of him in Jordan and him greeting all of those people.    Let's talk a little bit about Trump, Donald Trump this weekend, the second  weekend, defending those 9/11 comments that so many people have said just  absolutely are not true. It's been fact-checked to death that it's not true.  Donald Trump not surprisingly disagreeing saying look, people are coming into my  office, and tweeting me, saying that I'm right. So I'm right.    But another interesting story on the Donald Trump front. You know, he has spent  some time meeting with black pastors. And we have been expecting there would be  this big groundswell of endorsement. That they -- he would have some sort of a  big endorsement from black pastors. It doesn't look like that's happening.  What's going on there?   
BRADNER: Yes, so it sounds like the Trump campaign really oversold this. Last week, they were talking about this big endorsement event today where there would  be a press conference and hundreds of black pastors would be there to show their  support for Trump. Now they're saying there's no press event at all. It's just a  meet-and-greet. It's a private meeting at Trump Tower. Nothing public.    And it sounds like, frankly, a lot of these pastors were taken by surprise by  the idea that they were going to be endorsing Trump at all. They're saying,  look, it's his meeting. He called us here. So we're going to talk to him and  listen, but this is not necessarily an endorsement. So the Trump campaign really  had to backtrack from what they had billed this as which is a big event.    And that's problematic for Trump right now because he's trying to call a couple  of racial controversies as you'd alluded to, I mean, he's sort of, you know,  confronting the Black Lives Matter protester, and re-tweeting the fake and  racially charged set of crime figures who -- the comments about Muslim-Americans  on 9/11 celebrating. There are several controversies that he's sort of trying to  tamp down. This was an event that had it been what he had billed as could have  helped to do that, but it turns out it's quite the opposite.   
KOSIK: All right. Let's quickly go to another candidate. Chris Christie at the bottom of the New Hampshire Republicans choice for nominee, coming in at 4  percent, yet he picked up a big endorsement, a real shot in the arm for his  campaign. Do voters pay attention to this?   
BRADNER: Yes. I mean, in New Hampshire, the "Union Leader" is an important newspaper. Voters do pay a little bit of attention. It's -- now this is not  necessarily like something that's going to move Christie in a big way in the  polls. But the assumption a lot of Republicans I talked to have is that things  are going to sort of be shaken up again before anyone actually casts a ballot.  And this could be one of several things, you know, this endorsement, Christie's  experience on -- as a prosecutor, as foreign policy sort of comes to the  forefront.    Could be one of several things that gets him another look if one or several  candidates starts to fade. This could help him if voters are looking for, like,  a second choice, an alternative. So yes, it's helpful. It's not a huge deal. But  it's definitely helpful for his campaign. And he's needed a shot in the arm.   
ROMANS: It's another headline.  
BRADNER: For quite a line.  
ROMANS: He needs a headline. He needs the headline. He got a headline. Still pretty crowded field there. We're going to talk to you in about half an hour.  I'm going to ask you about some of those comments from Jeb Bush. He called  Donald Trump scary. Scary idea of commander-in-chief. So we'll talk about that.    Thanks for getting up for us. We'll talk to you again in a few minutes.   
BRADNER: Great.  
ROMANS: Bye, Eric.   All right. Kobe Bryant calling it a career in reverse. Coy Wire has this  morning's "Bleacher Report" next.       
ROMANS: So both of our sons freaked out over this news last night.  
KOSIK: It was a big --  
ROMANS: Kobe Bryant announces he will retire at the end of this season. His 20th with the Lakers.   
KOSIK: Coy Wire has more in this morning's "Bleacher Report."  
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS: Good morning, Alison and Christine. Kobe Bryant, he confirmed what's been widely assumed, that this will be the final season of his  legendary NBA career. He announced the news in the form of a poem titled "Dear  Basketball" posted on the "Players' Tribune" Web site which crashed after the  news announced, by the way.    Kobe wrote, quote, "This season is all I have left to give. My mind can handle  the grind, but my body knows it's time to say good-bye. And that's OK. I'm ready  to let you go," end quote.     Emotions ran high when he stepped on the court at Staple Center last  night. After the loss to the Pacers, Kobe talked about his decision.       
KOBE BRYANT, LOS ANGELES LAKERS: I've had so many great times, right? So I think it's -- see the beauty and not being able to blow past the finish anymore. You  know what I mean?       
WIRE: After 17 all star selections, five NBA titles, the league MVP awards, and two Olympic golds, Kobe Bryant will soon say good-bye to the game for good.    Missing 40 offensive starters, Tom Brady's pass put their perfect record on the  line at Mile High against the Peyton Manning-less Broncos last night. Brock  Osweiler leads Denver to the go-ahead score, putting them up by three with just  over a minute in regulation. But that's plenty of time for Tom Brady. He marches  the Patriots into game time field goal position. Stephen Gronkowski got them. To  overtime we go. And in OT CJ Anderson on lock's legend status in Denver for the  night at least. Quicker than a hiccup with his 48-yard walk-off TD. Broncos beat  the Pats, 30-24, moved to 9-2 on the season and hand New England their first  loss of the season.    While the Pats get their first loss, the Philadelphia 76ers are still looking  for their first win. They lost to the Memphis Grizzlies last night, dropping to  0-18. Tying the NBA record for the most losses to start a season ever and to  make it even worse, it's their 28th consecutive loss dating back to last season.  That's the longest losing streak by any team in any major North American  pro-sport. Houston College sports the record for most conservative losses is 41  set byin the 2011-2012 season. My Philadelphia 76ers keep making me  sicker -- Christine and Alison.   
ROMANS: Sorry. All right, thanks so much, Coy Wire. Nice to see you this morning.   
WIRE: You too. Thanks.  
KOSIK: President Obama in Paris meeting with world leaders over how to fight climate change. We're live next.   
