    
HIGHLIGHT: New photos are released of the female shooter in San Bernardino. FBI announces the San Bernardino shooting is being investigated as a terrorist  attack. Donald Trump increases his lead in polls over his GOP rivals. President  Obama is criticized for handling of ISIS. CNN will host a Heroes tribute event.     
 CHRISTI PAUL, CNN ANCHOR: We are getting our first look at Tashfeen Malik. The FBI says this woman, who was also a wife and mother, was one of the  shooters in the San Bernardino massacre. New this morning, we are taking a look  at her tie to terror.    Plus ISIS responding to the attack in California, calling the shooters  supporters, not members of a terrorist operation, and saying it is praying to  God that they are accepted as martyrs.       
BARACK OBAMA,PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We are strong and resilient and we will not be terrorized.       
PAUL: But is America safe? The president says we are. With terrorists striking on our soil, though, have we grossly underestimated ISIS' reach all along?    We are always so grateful for your company. Thank you for sharing some time with  us this morning. I'm Christi Paul.   
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Victor Black well. Good morning, live here in San Bernardino, California. And we are starting now our coverage of the massacre  here and now this terror investigation.    Let's begin with the new developments. We now know that that UPS package  addressed to the two California shooters contained clothes. If you missed it,  overnight, a UPS facility was evacuated after a driver discovered a box  addressed to the two killers condo.    We also have a new picture of the attacker Tashfeen Malik. Take a look. She, as  you know, pledged allegiance to ISIS on Facebook. And now ISIS is calling them,  as Christi said, supporters and praying to God that they accept them as martyrs.    Also, a co-worker says she radicalized her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook. Fourteen  people were killed in the mass shooting earlier this week. CNN is covering this  story from every angle. Let's begin now with Polo Sandoval. He is live in  Redlands which is nearby in front of the condo where the shooters live. Polo,  let's start with this emergency at the UPS facility. What do we know about that  package and how that all went down?   
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, Victor. Ultimately, it did end up being a false alarm. But I think really the main take away from that story shows this  heightened level of vigilance. You have a UPS driver that left the south  California sorting facility out for his deliveries. And then he took a closer  look at one of the packages there that showed 53 North Center Street, which is  actually the address that you would see right behind me over that doorway.  Automatically that red flag went up and this driver realized it was actually the  home of Syed Farook.    He quickly returned to that sorting facility. The chief of police here in San  Bernardino isolated that box until the bomb squad arrived to later determine it  was simply clothes. Again, while the items in that box were of no threat, I  think it really does highlight this level of vigilance. And this morning, now  that the sun is up over this community, people are out walking their dogs and  they're seeing the boarded up door and window behind me. It's a reminder that  they have to be extra vigilant, and they hope this is something that happens  across the country, especially with several potential ISIS ties in this case.   
BLACKWELL: Polo, I was inside that apartment yesterday after the owner allowed media in. We saw what was left behind. But we also saw that there were four  pages, this itemized list of items seized by the FBI. You have now looked  through that list extensively. What was taken?   
SANDOVAL: You have the physical evidence and you have the digital evidence that was removed. When it comes to the physical items, you have, for example, several  different bomb-making materials as investigators refer to it as essentially  components of a small bomb making factory at this property. You also have files  and documents. And also some of the digital data as well. There was a hard  drive, two smashed up, heavily damaged phones that were recovered nearby.  Investigators hope that that could provide them with a key clue or at least  several key clues that they need to try to finally establish that connection.    We found out yesterday this case will be treated as a terrorism investigation,  which means they are going to have additional counter terrorism experts on  board, more resources. Much of that evidence was actually put on a plane on  Thursday and shipped to Quantico where federal agents are taking a closer look  at it this morning.   
BLACKWELL: Polo Sandoval for us there Redlands, Polo thank you so much.   Let's talk more now about Syed Rizwan Farook. He was described as a shy, quiet,  devout in his faith man. But then something changed. Two men who attended the  same mosque as Farook spoke to CNN's Don Lemon last night about the shooter.       
 GASSER SHEHATA, ATTENDED MOSQUE WITH SYED RIZWAN FAROOK: We are totally in shock. We don't understand it. We can't but the numbers together. If  we have to guess, we think something happened in the last maybe month or two  months, maximum. He stopped coming to the mosque about four weeks ago. We  haven't seen him. Again, we are not surprised because he doesn't live in San  Bernardino. He lives in Redlands. He used to go to Riverside. He only came to  our mosque because of his work. He was in restaurant in San Bernardino, so  whenever he had his lunch break he would come to pray with us. He would come  about two to three times a week.    Now, what happened? I don't know. We are more inclined to believe that he had  some argument or a fight with his work than to think this has anything to do  with religion. I go to the mosque all the time. I'm really a regular. And I can  tell you all of us are extremely kind. We care about everybody regardless of  their religion. We actually learned the opposite of hatred. We learn our  religion to love others and respect others. If you see someone in harm's way, we  are believed is to go and help them and get them out of harm's way. So there is  no radical organization in San Bernardino or any of my Muslim brothers who pray  at same mosque. I know all of them, and none of them think like that.   
RAHEMAAN ALI, ATTENDED MOSQUE WITH SYED RIZWAN FAROOK: If we were to know he was like this, we would be the first to report to the authorities about him.   
SHEHATA: Absolutely.      
BLACKWELL: Let's get some analysis now. With me now, CNN military analyst, retired lieutenant colonel, Rick Francona. I want to start right there with what  we heard from the fellow members of the mosque and what we also know from the  FBI and local law enforcement. These two were completely under the radar, no  suspicion surrounding them. Does the FBI, does the intelligence community need  to, I guess, reconsider what raises people to that level of investigation, to  the level of suspicion?   
RICK FRANCONA, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: This is a real problem. How do you do that legally? There are certain constraints that we have to operate on. You just  can't randomly surveil American citizens. And when you have these people that  fly under the radar, this is the gold standard for these terrorist groups. Al  Qaeda tried to do it for years. It appears ISIS is now trying to do it by  finding people with clean passports that have never come to the attention of the  authorities, especially if they are willing to travel overseas and come back.  These are the people they want because, as we see, it is almost undetectable and  impossible to stop.   
BLACKWELL: Polo there in front of the home where the FBI raid was conducted on Wednesday night, now have gone through the list of things seized. Several cell  phones, we know two smashed cell phones have been recovered. Those could offer a  lot of avenues of investigation.   
FRANCONA: I think that's going to be the key to breaking down who these people were talking to, because, as we've been discussing all night, there had to be  some training, some contact. Where did they get the explosives, where did they  get the knowledge? Were they able to develop the stuff themselves? Why smash the  cell phones? They were trying to hide communication. So they were talking to  someone. We'll be able to get that out of the cell phones. The FBI is very good  at this. Then they will be able to go to the phone companies and break down  everybody they have ever talked to. They'll be able to network diagram. So  pretty soon, we will know everything about who they talked to.   
BLACKWELL: Despite those communications, from your perspective, this is still a case of self-radicalization?   
FRANCONA: It appears to be. We have no knowledge that there was a direct tie to ISIS before. I think the first indication we have was the Facebook post by the  female shooter declaring allegiance to Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, which is very  interesting when you think she would have the presence of mind to do that just  before she goes in and murders 14 people.   
BLACKWELL: Wow. And just this small element of the UPS package that was en route as this was happening, what do you gleam from that, if anything?   
FRANCONA: I think it shows, as Polo said, the heightened sense of awareness in this community and now everybody, people are going to start looking at what's  going on. But this is after the fact. We have to find some way to detect this  before it happens.   
BLACKWELL: All right, Lieutenant Colonel Rick Francona, thanks so much.  
FRANCONA: Sure.  
BLACKWELL: Now, as we continue the conversation about the investigation that's developing, let's talk about Tashfeen Malik and the possible inspiration she  derived from ISIS. Just ahead, what the U.S. need to do now to fight the war on  terror.       
OBAMA: It is entirely possible that these two attackers were radicalized to commit this act of terror. If so, it would underscore a threat we have been  focused on for years.       
BLACKWELL: You hear there President Obama acknowledging the threat of ISIS supporters committing acts right here in America.     But if the U.S. has known about this for years, how are some people  flying under the radar? We'll get into the general picture and some specifics  next.   
BLACKWELL: Welcome back to NEW DAY. I'm Victor Blackwell here in San Bernardino, California. And we now know of the shooters, apparently there was one who  pledged allegiance to ISIS' leader, Tashfeen Malik. And now in his weekly radio  address, President Obama says they have been preparing for a threat like this.  Listen.       
OBAMA: It is entirely possible that these two attackers were radicalized to commit this act of terror, and if so it would underscore a threat we have been  focused on for years, the danger of people succumbing to violent extremist  ideologies.       
BLACKWELL: Well, you'll remember this attack came on the very day President Obama told CBS news that ISIS will not pose an existential threat to the U.S.  CNN's Chris Frates is here to talk more about what the president said. And  Chris, the timing there unfortunate, but there are people who are wondering if  the U.S. has grossly underestimated ISIS. As we've seen, there has been evidence  of that in the past.   
CHRIS FRATES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Victor. That is exactly right. And this news that the attacks may have been inspired by ISIS, it is only  fueling Republican criticism that President Obama's strategy to defeat the  terrorist group has failed. Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio, he  says despite Obama's arguments to the contrary, ISIS is not under control.       
SEN. MARCO RUBIO,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The threat we faced in California this week is the most dangerous terrorist threat we have ever faced. And here is  why. Because the other individual, the husband, was a U.S. citizen, born in the  United States, lived here his entire life, had never, ever, ever done anything  radical or strange that caused anyone to be suspicious of him.     And the next president of the United States better be someone that  knows how to handle it because they understand exactly what it is made of. It  begins by recognizing that, indeed, we are at war with radical jihadists.       
FRATES: Now, for his part, Obama has worried publicly for years about the possibility of an attack by a lone wolf that was, in fact, self- radicalized,  because, as law enforcement will tell you, Victor, it is incredibly difficult to  track terrorists working in isolation. And on the day of the attacks but before  the possible ISIS link was discovered, Obama again downplayed the threat ISIS  poses.       
OBAMA: ISIL is not going to pose an existential threat to us. They are a dangerous organization like Al Qaeda was. But we have hardened our defenses. Our  homeland has never been more protected by more effective intelligence and law  enforcement professionals at every level than they are now.       
FRATES: But even before the massacre in California, Americans expressed doubts about Obama's strategy. A survey out last month found that more than half of  those polled disapproved of how the president has handled the issue. That's not  a good sign for the president as his administration comes to grips with what  could be the biggest terrorist attack in American since 9/11. Victor?   
BLACKWELL: Yes, similar to when we heard the president's statement that ISIS is contained hours before the attacks in Paris. Chris Frates, thanks so much.    Let's talk now with CNN military analyst, Lieutenant General Mark Hertling.  General Hertling, we talk about these statements we hear from the president that  ISIS is not an existential threat to the U.S., that ISIS is contained, and now  this week we're seeing the attack here. What is this gap that we're seeing  between the intelligence, between the government, and what ISIS is able to do  even through inspiration if not direct involvement?   
LT. GEN. MARK HERTLING, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Yes, Victor, I think we need to talk a little bit about wordplay here. I think the president did say in his  interview that ISIS was a serious threat to international security. And then he  followed up, because some of the presidential candidates have been saying it is  an existential threat. If we define existential, that means that it is a threat  to U.S. sovereignty, a threat to our constitution, and a threat to a gross  number of American people.    So the president has admitted that this is a terrible organization. They do have  an unbelievably bad ideology which has to be stamped out and prevented, but what  he is saying is, I believe, not trying to interpret for the president, but what  he is saying is we will certainly have security issues. And anyone that says we  will not be attacked in the United States, just like Paris has not been tacked  or other countries have not been attacked, that's never a good thing to do.    But to say an existential threat, meaning the entire nation is going to fall,  that's an altogether different story. And I think that's the question he was  addressing during the interview. Will we have continued attacks like this? My  belief is, yes, we will, because this ideology is tough to stamp out. The  security forces in our intelligence services are attempting to counter it, but  they can't be 100 percent certain all the time that they have hit every target  that they need to hit.   
BLACKWELL: And let's talk about the strategy, the intelligence strategy, the military strategy. We know that the U.S. leading a coalition to take the fight  to ISIS in Iraq, in Syria. But we have these home grown terrorists. We also have  in Tashfeen Malik a woman who has connections to Pakistan and to Saudi Arabia.  Give us some insight on to the fight that's being taken to radicals there, if at  all, if the U.S. is involved in those two countries 
. HERTLING: When you talkabout the military line of effort, if you will, it has actually been advancing. We are seeing things in Iraq and Syria that seem to indicate we are getting  after this organization. It is decreasing in size and decreasing in amount of  territory.    We are actually getting after some of the financial networks, and we see  indicators of that. A "New York Times" story said today that ISIS has decided to  cut the pay of their fighters from $400 a month to $300 a month. There are  indicators that the financial attacks against them have contributed to this.    We still have problems on the border with Turkey of having fighters cross that  border and return to their homeland. The hardest part of this fight, Victor, and  that's what we are talking about right now, is the spread of the ideology to  some who just do not truly understand the Muslim religion and are attempting to  bastardize it, to do things that are contrary to that religion. The ideological  fight is going to be the hardest thing in defeating ISIS.   
 BLACKWELL: All right, Lieutenant General Mark Hertling, always good to have your insight.    Christi, as I toss it back to you, of course the specific investigation is going  to be our focus this morning. But the larger question about how does the U.S.,  how does the coalition prevent this from happening in cities like San Bernardino  and Paris and cities across the country, we are going to talk about that of  course this morning and throughout coverage of what is now a changing world.   
PAUL: All right, yes, we'll get back to you here in just a second. Victor, thank you so much.    Meanwhile, I want to tell you about this new report this morning about that  police shooting of a teenager in Chicago. What we are finding out about the  officer's report that doesn't match what's on his dash cam video.    Also, oil prices plummet. So what does that really mean?   
PAUL: It's 24 minutes past the hour. We want to get you back to San Bernardino, California in a moment, but another bombshell report in the Laquan McDonald case  to tell you about, this time from "The Chicago Sun Times." They say the video  from the night the 17-years- old was shot, some of what you're seeing here, does  not match what was written in police reports. The internal reports say the teen  threatened police in a way not seen in the videos.     Freddie Gray did not get the help he needed when he asked for it. And  when he did, it was too late. That is the latest from prosecutors. In the first  trial for a police officer involved in Gray's death, the 25-year-old died a  broken neck in police custody earlier this year. Have you noticed what's  happening at the pump? Oil prices took a dive yesterday after OPEC failed to  agree on an official quota, which is good news for drivers as oil prices  continue to fall. They are bringing gas prices down with them. In fact the  average gallon of gas in the U.S. now costs just a little more than $2.    And Oscar-nominated actor Robert Loggia has passed away. He is best nor for his  roles in "Scarface," "Independence Day," and the movie "Big," remember, where he  had that iconic scene playing piano alongside Tom Hanks. Loggia died after a  five-year struggle with Alzheimer's disease. He was 85-years-old.    We do have some new information for you that is surfacing about the female  shooter in the San Bernardino massacre. What we are learning about Tashfeen  Malik and her possible terror ties. But if you would, let us take a moment so we  can pause and remember the victims of that attack.               
 BLACKWELL: Welcome back to NEW DAY. This morning, we have several new developments about the San Bernardino shooting. ISIS now speaking out about the  attack, calling killers here, quote "supporters." Also we now know that the UPS  package addressed to the two killers contained clothes. A UPS facility evacuated  after a driver saw the box and it's address to their home.    And of course we are getting now new pictures of the female shooter, Tashfeen  Malik, who pledged allegiance to the leader of ISIS Abu Bakr al Baghdadi on  Facebook. And a co-worker says she thinks Malik was responsible for radicalizing  her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook.    Now, a lot of the investigation into the shooting was focused on their home,  their condo in Redlands. It's the home of the two suspects. They left it  cluttered. You could see that there were baby items everywhere, half-eaten food,  several signs of faith throughout the house. They left in a hurry and then went  and killed 14 people, wounded 21 others.    I was there yesterday when the landlord allowed scores of reporters and  photographers inside. Here is what we found.       
BLACKWELL: As the door was pried open, a dramatic scene as a crush of reporters and camera crews were allowed inside the townhouse rented by Syed Rizwan Farook  and his wife, Tashfeen Malik. They couple's landlord invites the media to look  inside the home with no objection from the FBI. DAVID BOWDITCH, ASSISTANT 
DIRECTOR, FBI, LOS ANGELES OFFICE: We executed a search warrant on that apartment, and last night we turned that over, back to the residents. Once the  residents have the apartment and we are not in it anymore, we don't control it.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When were you able to come back in here?  
DOYLE MILLER, LANDLORD: Last night, about 8:00, 9:00. This is unreal.  
BLACKWELL: Around the apartment, signs of life familiar to families everywhere -- clutter in the kitchen, toys belonging to the couple's six-month-old daughter  scattered on the floor. But it is here in the couple's bedroom closet where you  find a sign of the intense investigation that took place as CNN's Stephanie Elam  discovered during a tour of the home.   
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Here you can see where they smashed up into the ceiling to take a look to see what was up there. It does appear, based on  how much debris was on the ground, that there was an effort to get up there and  make sure they checked every crevice of this back bedroom.   
BLACKWELL: Personal identification and other documents belonging to Farook's mother were left scattered on the bed. Evidence of the couple's devout faith are  also seen throughout the apartment, a prayer rug on the wall, various books on  the subject of Islam, even prayer beads left on the edge of the bed. In a  corner, the crib belonging to their six-month-old baby girl left to her  grandmother on the day of her shooting.       
BLACKWELL: All right, Brian Levin joins me now. He is from the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at Cal State here in San Bernardino, specializes in  analysis of terrorism and legal issues. Brian, good to have you back, because  set aside the mess created during the FBI raid. But we saw this looked like a  home someone left in a hurry. There has been this narrative there was an  argument, some altercation at this holiday party that sent Farook back to his  home to get his wife, and they returned then for this massacre. I want to listen  to what we heard from the sheriff here in San Bernardino County, the chief of  police about that narrative.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Was there or was there not an argument at this holiday party with this killer?   
CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: We don't know for sure. We had initial information about a witness or some witnesses that left the party and  provided information that it appeared he left upset or under some form of  duress. There is also indication from other people that he was there, there was  nothing out of the ordinary, and then suddenly he was gone.       
BLACKWELL: So nothing out of the ordinary. What was that first visit? What can we learn from this element of the story?   
BRIAN LEVIN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF HATE AND EXTREMISM: Look, there is also other evidence that suggests that they were trying to erase their digital  footprint in the day or days before. When you couple that with the arsenal, this  was not merely, some like, gee, I'm going to come back to the office. This was  pre-planned, ideological, jihadist terrorism.    Here what I think is interesting. Why did they choose the work place? I don't  think it was necessarily anger. I think it was ease and familiarity. Perhaps he  went there to case the place. Was there an argument? The witnesses seem to say  no.    The bottom line is, a lot of time with violent defenders, they go with where  they know. And as we can see, we have the junction of two interstates. They  could have gone anywhere. But he knew this was a party. It was an enclosed  place. He knew who was there, and he knew the configuration of the enclosure,  making it something that he was familiar with.     And we oftentimes see with unprofessional folks, right, they hit what  they know. This was, in my opinion, not a case of people who were heavily  trained by ISIS. I think they were self- radicalized, and they kind of came up  with this on their own, because, I'll tell you, they could have killed a whole  heck of a lot more people with the kind of weapons and arsenals that they had.   
BLACKWELL: Let's talk about these two themes we're seeing, self- radicalization, which law enforcement is saying this is a case of, and also the smashed cell  phones, the removed hard drive hiding some contact or context here. Marry those  for us and give us a fuller picture. If they are hiding contacts, is this,  indeed, self- radicalization?   
LEVIN: Great question. Sometimes when us analysts speak, it is little ambiguous. Here's what I mean. People can be self-radicalized and still reach out  somewhere. There is a link. And ISIS, or Daesh, want to do a couple things. They  want to get foreign fighters in to get trained and then send them back home. If  they can't do that, they are happy to inspire people, and there are some levels  of communication. Nidal Hasan had communication with Anwar al-Awlaki, but he did  not help him orchestrate the attack.    So, look, hit where you live, get weapons, here is some stuff on the Internet.  There are a lot of ways that people mostly on their own can become operational  through training manuals and speaking with folks on the Internet who might not  be directly training an orchestrating. There is a spectrum here, a slope of how  much help they are getting.   
BLACKWELL: And a lot they can get on their own.  
LEVIN: Yes.  
BLACKWELL: Brian Levin, thank you so much for the insight, always appreciate it.  
LEVIN: Thank you, Victor.   All right, still ahead, we will continue this conversation in San Bernardino and  talk about one element that was I guess the center of the conversation before  this turned to a terror investigation, that is gun control, the availability of  these types of weapons in the U.S. A national newspaper now taking a position on  its front page.    And, as we go to break, of course, we don't want to do this without mentioning  and focusing on the victims of this tragedy -- 14 people lost their lives, 21  facing injuries.   
 BLACKWELL: All right, so this is happening for the first time in nearly 100 years. "The New York Times" printing an editorial on its front page  demanding an end to the gun epidemic in America. Here's art of it. "It is a  moral outrage and national disgrace that civilians can purchase weapons designed  to kill people with brutal speed and efficiency."    Let's talk about this with, who else, senior media correspondent and host of  "Reliable Sources" Brian Stelter joining us now. Brian, so this is not a  fundamentally new position for "The Times." Why is it taking this position to  put it on the front page? Why make that choice?   
BRIAN STELTER, CNN SENIOR MEDIA CORRESPONDENT: That's right. It is the boldest statement "The Times" has ever made about gun control by putting it on the front  page. And I used to work at "The Times" so I know how valuable page one is.  Every reporter wants to be on page one.    And usually page one is reserved for news. I know some people think that news  and editorial are the same, but at the "New York Times," the people that write  the editorials work like 10 floors above the newsroom. They are completely  separate.    And that is why this is so controversial. Putting this editorial on the front  page instead of a news story, putting an opinion piece there is a big move by  "The Times." And they are going further then they have ever gone before about  gun control. Yes, the paper has called for stricter regulation of guns. But now  it is calling for a drastic reduction in the availability of guns. It does want  some confiscation of some assault-type weapons. It's not going into too much  detail here, but I think what we are hearing from "The Times" is a step much  further than even the Democratic candidates for president. So by putting it on  the front page, as you can see, they are clearly trying to stoke debate and also  change the contours of the debate just for maybe background checks to something  more sweeping like actually confiscating some weapons.   
BLACKWELL: So this hasn't happened since 95 years ago, 1920. If nothing changes, if we talk about this today and we talk about it tomorrow, this editorial on the  front panel, does that then dilute the impact of having done this?   
STELTER: I think that's a really important point. You're right. When you put this on the front page, you are making a big statement. If people don't respond  to it, if there is not really a reaction, then that is probably a disappointment  for the publisher and for the editorial board writers.    There are already many critics of the times that are saying they are focusing on  the wrong issue. The headline on the top of "The New York Times" and the  headline here on CNN is about this possibility of terrorism, that the FBI is  investigating as a case of terrorism. I think what "The Times" editorial writers  would say is, yes, that's true, but guns play a role in terrorism, and that's  what they are trying to address.    We've seen some other interesting covers recently, too. If we can show on screen  a newspaper cover from Mississippi yesterday. This is from the "Clarion Ledger."  And it's really striking because you see the Statue of Liberty holding up a  rifle upside down in its hands here. This is for a news story. We have seen a  number of other covers recently sa well. I think we can show the Amarillo, Texas  paper, "The Globe News," asking what can be done, what should be done with the  image of a gun there yesterday.    And of course The "New York Daily News" got a lot of attention earlier in the  week for its covers about guns. It has been on a crusade against gun violence  for some time. This cover of course, said, "God is not fixing this." What we are  seeing is a digital age is that old- fashioned print newspapers can still make  big statements.   
BLACKWELL: Yes, still at the center of the national conversation. We will see what the impact will be of this front page editorial, again, the first time in  95 years for "The Times." Brian Stelter, thanks so much.   
STELTER: Thanks.  
BLACKWELL: All right, let's toss it back to Christie who is in Atlanta. I understand of course this is the center of the political conversation as well.   
 PAUL: It certainly is. Thanks, Victor.   And you know, Donald Trump, speaking specifically about him, has seen some heavy  criticism for recent comments he has made about what should happen to the  families of terrorists and to Muslims in general. His lead, though, in the GOP  presidential race, it is expanding by the day. We'll talk about it.   
PAUL: Well, Donald Trump heads to the key primary state of Iowa today, and what a time to do so. A new national CNN/ORC poll shows him at the top of the pack  among the GOP candidates. He has a double- digit lead, look at that, 20 points  in fact, as he climbs the campaign trail here. CNN's politics reporter M. J. Lee  with us now and on that trail with him, also CNN political commentators Ben  Ferguson and Jeffrey Lord. M. J., I would like to begin with you, and thank you,  gentlemen, for being with us. What is going on there today?   
M. J. LEE, CNN POLITICS REPORTER: Good morning, Christi. When Donald Trump comes here and campaign's in Iowa today, he should be in a pretty good mood. As you  mentioned, a new CNN poll out this week showing him at 36 percent. That's a  whopping 20-point lead over the second-place rival, who is Ted Cruz at 16  percent. Donald Trump continuing his first place streak for almost five months  now.     Now, when he takes the stage behind me a couple of hours from now, we  are expecting him to address the shooting in California this week, especially  after the FBI announced that they are now investigating this shooting as a  possible act of terrorism. The 2016 campaign candidates have been talking about  this issue more and more. Donald Trump discussed this issue in Raleigh, North  Carolina, yesterday. Let's take a listen to what he said.   
PAUL: OK, M. J., I apologize. I think that we are missing some sound there. We apologize for that. But I want to thank you so much. I know that you're going to  be following him today and you are going to be on throughout the day. So we'll  find out what is happening out there. But thank you, M. J.    Let's move here to Jeffrey and Ben now. Gentlemen, thanks for being with us.  Jeffrey, I want to start with you. You are, Jeffrey, a Trump supporter, of  course. No doubt, there has been some fierce criticism of some of his comments  regarding terrorist families and Muslims. Let's hear from Trump himself here for  a second.       
DONALD TRUMP,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I watched when the World Trade Center came tumbling down. And I watched in Jersey City, New Jersey, where thousands  and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down.    There should be a lot of systems beyond databases. We should have a lot of  systems. And today you can do it. But right now we have to have a border. We  have to have strength. We have to have a wall, and we cannot let what's  happening to this country happen.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you were in the White House, what would happen?  
TRUMP: I would certainly implement it.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would you go to a mosque and sign these people up?  
TRUMP: Different laces. You sign them up at different places. But it is all about management.    They are using human shields. But we are fighting a very politically correct  war.    The other thing is with the terrorists, you have to take out their families.  When you get these terrorists, you have to take out their families. They care  about their lives, don't kid yourself. They say they don't care. You have to  take out their families.       
PAUL: So he is the king of the one-liners, there's no doubt about it. But some of what he is saying violates the Geneva Convention. It's not even legally  possible. How is it that voters, do they think that he can actually make this  happen if he does get into office knowing that?   
JEFFREY LORD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATORS: Which of those?  
PAUL: Make any of those happen.  
LORD: I think what they are responding to is his no-nonsense, tough approach. I went back, Christi, and looked at what happened after the United States entered  World War II. And very interestingly, I found that President Franklin Roosevelt  put an immediate halt on the naturalization process on all German immigrants,  all Italian immigrants, and all Japanese immigrants who were already in this  country but had emigrated from their respective countries. And he put a stop to  it on the spot. That's the kind of action that I think we are looking for here.    In the case of the wife here, who was involved, who came into this country on a  Pakistani passport, the question has to be, I think, at some point, why are we  letting people like this in the country? It is bad enough we have to deal with  people that are native-born Americans. That's a different problem in a sense. It  is part of the same problem, but it's a different problem. There is no question  that we need to start to ask, why are we importing people here from countries  where there is a significant terrorism problem and radical Islamic problems and  letting them come into the country and do something like this. And 14 Americans  are now dead this morning.   
PAUL: There was no red flag on either one of these people for quite some time.  
LORD: Correct.  
PAUL: Ben, go ahead. Go ahead, Ben.  
BEN FERGUSON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: The reason why Donald Trump is surging in the polls right now is very simple. He actually will admit that there is an  enemy and there are people that want kill us, unlike the White House which is  obsessed right now with smog, global warming, and then gun control and telling  us that somehow is going to make us safe.    You have two totally different individuals here selling two totally different  ideas. Donald Trump's idea most people can connect with because they understand,  they believe that there are in fact Muslim extremist terrorists and homegrown  Muslim extremists who are coming out of some of these mosques who are killing  innocent Americans. Whereas you have a White House, regardless of the details of  how he's going to do it, you have a White House that's saying we need to go  after gun control. You have "The New York Times" saying this is a gun problem,  not a jihadi Muslim extremist problem.    And so I think a lot of people may not look at what Donald Trump is saying on  these issues that, honestly, you cannot do many of the things he is saying that  he wants to do. But they will say, well, he understands the issue, he  understands there is a threat, whereas the White House is not protecting us.  They won't even say "Muslim extremism" anymore at the White House. You can't get  the president to even say that in this country. And so when you have that  difference, people I think are willing to overlook the details of what Donald  Trump is saying, because I agree with you, most of what Donald Trump said he  cannot do.   
 PAUL: OK, it is a good conversation. And I am so sorry we are out of time already. Jeffrey Lord, Ben Ferguson, thank you so much.   
LORD: Thanks.  
PAUL: And I want to get you a program reminder, too. Watch the next CNN Republican debate. Wolf Blitzer moderating the last GOP debate of the year, all  taking place Tuesday, December 15th, 9:00 p.m. eastern right here on CNN.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is a night of glitz, glamour, and giving. "CNN Heroes, An All-star Tribute" hosted by Anderson Cooper, puts 10 everyday people in the  spotlight, saluting them for their work helping others.   
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: It is a great night. And it is nice that people who don't ordinarily get this kind of attention, you know, get this kind of  attention.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: On this special night, the stars turn out to honor them.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When we can celebrate heroes and heroic actions, that's the right thing to do.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is a real honor.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This year's amazing honorees, include a surgeon who served Chicago's poorest.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The biggest, boldest, bad ass doctor.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A woman who turned her home into a sanctuary for sloths.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The woman that proved sloth is a virtue.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is a night of passion.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The work that I do, this is like the air that I breathe, so I can't stop.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Laughter.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Were you scared of Sharon Stone?  
COOPER: I love Sharon Stone.  
 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And inspiration.      