    
HIGHLIGHT: President Obama Meets With World Leaders In Paris To Discuss Climate Change Policy; Ringleader Of Paris Attacks Had Other Attacks Planned; Obama And  Putin Discuss Syrian Crisis At Climate Change Summit; New Details Emerge From  Paris Attacks; Chris Christie Disputes Donald Trump's Claims That Muslims In New  Jersey Were Celebrating On 9/11     
 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now, President Obama with World Leaders meeting to fight climate change. But in Paris, the war on terror  is front and center.   
ALISON KOSIK, CNN CNCHOR: New information this morning in the manhunt for one of the Paris attackers as we learn about new attacks the ringleader had planned  before he was killed.    Welcome back to "Early Start." I'm Alison Kosik.   
ROMANS: I'm Christine Romans. Thirty minutes past the hour. John Berman has the morning off. Happening now President Obama on his last day in Paris for the  climate change summit. Amid extremely tight security head of state from nearly  150 countries, 40,000 delegates there. They're meeting with one mission, to  hammer out legally binding reductions in greenhouse gases, keeping global  warming under a critical threshold, 3.6 Fahrenheit, 2 degrees celsius.    Already the leaders of the two biggest greenhouse emitters China and the U.S.  and they have met. But the summit takes places under the shadow of repeated  failures to reach or keep to past climate deals.    Joining us from Paris with the latest Senior European Correspondent Jim  Bittermann. Good morning, Jim.   
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Christine. And thank all the leaders expressing their good intentions to try to do something, expressing a  need for urgency. President Obama was one of those people who spoke. And here's  the way he expressed the U.S. position.       
PRES. BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: That this is a turning point, that this is the moment we finally determined we would save our planet, is the fact  that our nations share a sense of urgency about this challenge and a growing  realization that it is within our power to do something about it.       
BITTERMANN: And President Obama doing a lot of other meetings while he's here with the other leaders that are here for example meeting this morning with  Turkish President Erdogan to talk about the fact that Turkey shooting down the  Russian jet the other day. And that's cause something with diplomatic incident.  Obama saying that in fact recognizing that Turkey is a NATO member and that U.S.  supports its sovereignty and need to defend itself.    And for his part Turkish President Erdogan saying in fact that Turkey wants to  find a diplomatic solution and a peaceful way out all over this. The President  right now meeting with members of the American embassy at the officer of -- OECD  where he'll be meeting later on with members of the -- the Presidents rather of  the small island nations. Now these are nations that are deeply concerned about  global warming. Because their nations could be flooded as oceans rise. So,  they'll be expressing their concerns. And then later on, the President will hold  a news conference before departing later on this afternoon. Christine.   
ROMANS: Jim Bittermann covering all it for us. A very busy couple of days. Thanks Jim.   
KOSIK: President Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin huddling for 30 minutes on the slide line of the climate talks in Paris. The two leaders working  on solving the Syrian crisis. Even agreeing to drawing up two lists to  distinguish between that country the extremists and legitimate opposition  groups. President Obama also expressing regret to Putin over the downing of one  of his fighter jet by turkey.    Let's go live in Moscow and bring in CNN Senior International Correspondent  Matthew Chance. So it sounds like this side is sort of side meeting between  Putin and Obama was a bit productive, but I'll tell you what that picture coming  out about that handshake and they're not looking each other in the eye. How did  that meeting really go?   
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. Well, it's difficult to assess since I was actually there. But I can tell you that a lot of  these photo editors, pick pictures to show the kind of way that the people want  to see this relationship between Russia and the United States.    Look, I mean, it's a working relationship that they have clearly. It's no secret  there is no love loss between the two leaders. They're not friends, they don't  have a great personal chemistry. But I can't believe this line that they never  once in each other eyes. I mean, that clearly would not have happened.    But look, you know, they got a joint problem here which is how to resolve the  problem in Syria. Both Russia and the United States are key players in this.  Russia has air force bombing ISIS targets and other rebel groups as well as  we're post to Bashar al-Assad, at the Syrian president.     And so, you know, inevitably they have to speak to each other if  there's going to be a solution to the Syrian crisis. Russia is inevitably going  to be part of it. One of the big concerns that United States has right now, I  think is the standoff between Russia and Turkey when turkey shot down at Russian  war plane last week. Instead to a massive deep, you know, problem with  relationship between Russia and Turkey. Russia was imposed sanctions against  Turkey. Vladimir Putin, the Russian President, refuse to meet President Erdogan  of Turkey in Paris where they both of that climate summit for face-to-face  talks.    And so, you know, look. The U.S. President calling for measure deescalation that  crisis. He expressed regret about the loss of the pilot and the other Russian  soldier on the ground who was involved in the rescue attempt, for the crew that  was shutdown. And that was well received here in Russia as well.    And so look, they may not like each other, but they are apparently prepared to  work with each other to try and get to the end of this conflict's end in Syria.   
KOSIC: OK, so a picture of maybe in this case does not tell a thousand words. Matthew Chance, thank so much.   
ROMANS: Chilling new details emerging this morning from the Paris terror attacks. Sources telling CNN the terrorists may have been planning more far  reaching attacks than previously known. This as we learned the attacker who  survived Salah Abdeslam may have successfully escaped to Syria. From Paris this  morning, with the latest CNN's Phil Black. Phil.   
PHIL BLACK, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Christine, it's an extraordinary idea. Effectively Europe's most wanted man whose name, identity, picture has been  everywhere here for the last two weeks. Salah Abdeslam. This additional member  terror team that somehow escaped on the night. The idea and this is being  suggested as a theroy and it apparently being worked on by French intelligence,  but he may actually left Europe already, that he slipped the nest here,  returning to ISIS control territory in Syria.    This is a working theory for French intelligence. The idea that this man who was  in Paris moved to Belgium, then went to ground, hasn't been seen since. So  somehow been troubled a fair distance really to a country like Turkey or rock  boarding Syria and crossing the boarder.    The Extraordinary thing about it, that it's likely he would have had to take  some sort of international commercial fly in order to make that journey. That's  a French theory. The Belgium say and they're still looking for him because he  was last believe he had been in Belgium here that they don't have any concrete  reason to believe that he has successfully made that journey, but they think  that it make sense that someway he would always who've gotten to. So, indeed it  is possible and we like to see what further details are revealed here.    Meanwhile, what we're hearing from a French source close to the Paris attach  investigation is more  idea about the terror group here in Paris had  planned after those attack terrorists were killed 130 people. According to  sources, we had told that they had other plots ready to go. And this information  suggests they were getting ready to attack Jewish areas, schools and transport  networks. And the information is said to have come from a witness who presented  himself voluntarily to French police.    And who says he was in direct contact with the member of the terror team here in  Paris. A woman who was killed during a raid by French police in the days after  the attack that wasn't successful. Now, French authorities who have already said  they conducted that raid they believe just in time to thwart another suspected  attack that they thought was going to be target the financial district in Paris.  All of it suggests is this team was getting ready to go for far more than the  attacks that killed more than 130 people. Christine.   
ROMANS: All right, Phil Black live this morning in Paris. Thank you, Phil.  
KOSIK: Chris Christie disputing Donald Trump's claims about Muslims celebrating on 9/11. Taking on the presidential frontrunner in a new CNN interview. We're  going to break it down next.   
 KOSIK: Donald Trump back on the campaign trail in New Hampshire today after meeting with black pastors that was not followed by an endorsement news  conference as originally planned. That part of the event was canceled after  several pastors listed said they had no plans to endorse Trump. This as the  Republican frontrunner faces new plot from his opponent Chris Christie. Joining  us now to break down all the day political news, CNN Politics Reporter Tal Kopan  and our Washington bureau. Good morning to you.   
TAL KOPAN, CNN POLITICS REPORTER: Good morning.  
KASIK: So Chris Christie sat down with our Jamie Gangel in this great interview where it almost feels like he's putting the focus back on him by taking jabs at  Trump. Listen to what he says and we'll come back on the back side.       
JAMIE GANGEL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Did it happen?  
CHRIS CHRISTIE,2016 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: No.  
GANGEL: Absolutely not?  
CHRISTIE: No.  
GANGEL: So why don't you call Donald Trump out on this? He's doubled down. He's tripled down?   
CHRISTIE: What's the use? Everybody knows it didn't happen. Everybody knows it didn't happen, so what's the use 
? GANGEL: If any...
CHRISTIE: Did you join the cacophony? I want that distinguish myself and making myself different from everybody else in a 14-person field. Not the same. And so,  you know, to just pile on? I don't see that as being useful. Listen, Jamie, I'm  trying to win this race.       
KOSIC: OK, so Christie talking about the claim that Trump is making that he saw on T.V., Muslims in New Jersey cheering after the 9/11 attacks. Christie coming  out and say, look, its just not true.   
KOPAN: Yeah, an important bit of context is that, when he was first asked about this right after Donald Trump made the claim, he actually hedged a bit and said  I don't recall it. And so this is him coming out much stronger than we saw him  initially coming out with this position. You know we're seeing a little bit of  frustration I think from some of the candidate out here with Donald Trump. He  continues to get media attention. He continues to make statements that may be  factually inaccurate, or are factually inaccurate.   
KOSIK: Right.  
 KOPAN: And no matter what the other candidates can't really call him out on that. So, you know, when Chris Christie says what's the point of, you  know, joining the chorus of people saying it's not true. On one hand, he's the  governor of New Jersey. So, you know, there is a point to his perspective. But  on the other hand, you know, he's saying, why go after Trump. It's not going to  accomplish anything, let me focus on setting myself apart however I can and it's  very difficult race.   
ROMANS: And doing well in New Hampshire, that's what he wants, he got a big endorsement this week. He got good headlines this week. So Chris Christie is  really focusing on New Hampshire and focusing on himself trying not to, you  know, make a headline for take a hit on Donald Trump.    Let's talk about Hillary Clinton because 13 of 14 female senators stood with her  united and standing behind him endorsing their candidate. All of these women in  the senate-- no, no not all of these women in the senate, there was one woman  who was missing. Senator Elizabeth Warren.   
KOPAN: That's right. It sort of I'll give you one guess kind of thing, right? The Democrats have had a fascination with Elizabeth Warren for years now, even  before she arrived in the Senate. She has a real importance with some of the  ideas that are especially on the progressive side of the Democratic Party really  strong. And she is one of the very few Democratic senator whose has yet to  endorse Hillary Clinton. Not just women Hillary Clinton has locked up a real  solid number of her former colleagues in the Senate who have come out and  endorsed her over Bernie Sanders, who is also a current senator.    And so, having Elizabeth Warren be absent is noticeable. Because everyone is  looking at her and saying how are you going to go with this? Where is the wind  of the really progressive arm of the Democratic Party blowing? Are they willing  to get on board with Hillary or they going to sit this one out? It has serious  implications for Hillary Clinton candidate.   
ROMANS: Do progressives hope that Bernie Sanders will pull Hillary Clinton to the left? Could Elizabeth Warren be withholding endorsement, you know, hoping  for some sort of sign that a president Hillary Clinton would be more progressive  and less moderate and less middle?   
KOPAN: It's certainly possible. I mean, there are a lot of possibilities here. It's possible she may never endorse Hillary Clinton and just won't choose too.  But she may be trying to pull her to the left. Remember that some of the  strongest moments for Bernie Sanders and weakest moments for Hillary Clinton in  this race have come as she was trying to explain her relationship to Wall Street  and the banks.   
ROMANS: That's right.  
KOPAN: Which is of course Elizabeth Warren's most important issue that she speaks on. And so, it's difficult for Hillary to navigate this situation. And  certainly anytime you see a candidate in the race that sort of it supposedly not  able to win or a third party candidate, many of the times their purpose is to  pull the conversation in the direction they want it to go.    So, Bernie Sanders' candidacy has definitely drawn a sharper focus on the issue.  How Hillary Clinton handles that, we still have to watch.   
KOSIK: All right, Tal Kopan. Thanks so much for coming on the show today. Great analysis.   
ROMANS: We love it when she gets up early. Someone else who gets up early is Alisyn Camerota. She joins us to tell us what's coming up on new day. Good  morning.   
ALISYN CAMEROTA, CO-ANCHOR: That is true. We are all early risers, Christine. Great to see you guys. So, another day, another installment a Donald Trump's  claims about extremists in New Jersey cheering after the 9/11 attacks. Today's  episode will be a very good one.    Former mayor of New York City, Rudy Giuliani will join us live. And if there is  one person who knows what happened that day, it's him. Did he see any  celebrating? We will also hear from New Jersey Governor Chris Christie about  what he thinks about Donald Trump's claims.    Plus, our fearless partner Chris Cuomo is live in Paris for all of the climate  change talks also security is of course a very big issue there. So Chris will  bring us all of the latest live.    This morning, President Obama is meeting with Turkey's leader about the tension  with Russia.    And later the President will address the world. And we will bring that to you  live at 8:40 eastern. So we have a very big program schedule and we'll see it in  about 12 minutes.   
KOSIK: We will be watching. Thanks, Alisyn.  
 ROMANS: Nice done, looking forward to that. Our big banks, too big to fail. The Feds latest move says not anymore. That's next.   
KOSIK: Day two of jury selection in the trial of Baltimore police officer William Porter. He's the first of six cops to stand trial in connection with the  arrest and death of Freddie Gray. A new batch of jurors will be questioned today  with the judge hoping to have a jury seated by Wednesday. Protesters gathered  outside the courthouse on Monday. Gray's death in police custody sparks riot in  the city and Baltimore again is on edge.   
ROMANS: The man accused of killing three people at the Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs facing a judge for the first time since that shooting.  57-year-old Robert Dear appearing by video from jail. He was told he's being  held on suspicion of first-degree murder, which could mean life in prison or the  death penalty if convicted. Dear will be formally charged at a court hearing  next weeks.   
KOSIK: For the first time since his arrest in the Laquan McDonald shooting. Chicago Police Officer Jason Van Dyke is free on bond. Van Dyke posted the $1.5  million bond on Monday. He's charged with first- degree murder for allegedly  shooting a black teenager 16 times. Police dash cam footage was released last  week. That's more than a year after the shooting actually happened.   
ROMANS: A 21-year-old man arrested for allegedly threatening to kill students and kill staff at the University of Chicago apparently in response to the Laquan  McDonald killing. The threat shut the school down on Monday. The suspect  identified as Jabari Dean.     Police say he posted a message on social media over the Thanksgiving  weekend, threatened to kill 16 white male students or staffers. The social media  threat noted that was the same number of shots fired at McDonald.   
KOSIK: Lawyers for Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev will be back in federal court today seeking a new trial. He will be back in federal court to  seek that new trial. Tsarnaev, you recall, was convicted and sentenced to death  back in June for the marathon attack. Since then, the Supreme Court struck down  part of the law Tsarnaev was convicted under. The judge who oversaw Tsarnaev's  trial is scheduled to hear arguments on the defense motion for a new trial.  Tsarnaev will not be in court for the hearing.   
ROMANS: OK, let's get an early start on your money. U.S. stock futures are up this morning. It is the first day of December with a great deal for investors to  tackle this month. Beginning with the latest jobs report on Friday, it's a last  report before the Fed makes a decision on interest rates. Consensus is Fed is  likely to raise interest rates this month for the first time in a decade. Nearly  every jobs indicator has been improving. Even the under employment rate is  falling rapidly, especially for college graduates. It's now just 6.2 percent,  compared with 10.2 percent during the recession. Analysis from Georgetown  University shows those tales of college educated baristas are becoming rarer.  Georgetown says more and more the college degree is the ticket out of under  employment.    The Federal reserve's new message to big banks. Don't expect a bailout over the  next financial crisis. Under the new rule adopted Monday, the fed can't give  funding to banks going bankrupt. If it had been in place during the financial  crisis, it would have prevented the Fed giving money to AIG and Bear Stearns.  But some say this rule doesn't go far enough in ending two big to fail. Here's  why, the Fed can still lend the banks during times of emergencies as long as the  banks can pay it back. But issue help of struggling bank can be difficult to  assess.    The latest in the drug price gauging war. Remember this drug Daraprim? It's the  drug that highest price go from $13.50 to $750 a pill overnight own by Turing  Pharmaceuticals and this controversial CEO Martin Shkreli. Now the largest  prescription drug manager Express Scripts will offer an alternative, an  alternative to cost just a dollar a pill. The compound medicine would the same  match of ingredient is Daraprim. A Turing on the other hand is offer discount to  hospitals and financial assistance it says to needy patients, but the $750  sticker price has not come down. I expect you're going to be hearing more about  this in Congress and on the campaign trail. Because especially Democrats say  this price gadget should be illegal.   
KOSIK: Absolutely. All right, President Obama in Paris to fight climate change, but the war on ISIS and tensions with Russia is taking center stage. "New Day"  starts now.   
CAMEROTA: Unprecedented security surrounding world leaders in Paris.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: President Obama and Russia's Vladimir Putin appeared to be looking right past each other. But two leaders are still at odds.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Paris is under an official state of emergency.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Investigators suspect the fugitive eight terrorist may have escaped to Syria.   
DONALD TRUMP,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We had the African-American pastors, so many came up to Trump tower.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not here to endorse Mr. Trump. I'm here to have a dialogue.   
CHRISTIE: In conflict with Donald outrageous is a high bar. He said what he said. Now the people who vote will judge him.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The first thing you have is to be here the right to remain silent.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: At Women's Health Centers across the country, the numbers of incident of harassment and violence have doubled in last five years.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Too soon to still to determine whether or not the prosecution will seeks the death penalty.   
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to "New Day." It is Tuesday, December 1st, 6:00 in the east. Alisyn and Mic are in New York. And we are in Paris and we begin  with breaking news.    On the sidelines of the climate change summit here in Paris, President Obama  meeting this morning with Turkey's President after holding talks with Russian  President Vladimir Putin. But there was no meeting of the three together so far  as we know.    The President urging both leaders, we're told, to focus on a common enemy ISIS.  But is Russia ready to move beyond its jet beam shutdown. We have more on that  in a moment. And all of this of course comes with some 150 world leaders hoping  to forge a deal to reduce carbon emissions. Now, what's the biggest development  so far? President Obama is going to hold the news conference later this morning  before departing from Paris. We're hoping for some headlines out of that. We'll  bring it to you live of course. But we have CNN Senior White House Correspondent  Jim Acosta is live at the summit with the latest.    Jim, what do we know about these meetings and climate talks?   
JIM ACOSTA, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPODENT: Chris President Obama just wrapped up a meeting with Turkey's President Erdogan making it very clear which  side the U.S. is on when it comes to the NATO allies' dispute with Russia.     Moscow is still outraged over Turkey's downing of a Russian bomber  near the Turkey, Syria border last week. Russian President Vladimir Putin refuse  to meet with Erdogan at this climate summit here in Paris.   
