    
HIGHLIGHT: A law enforcement official says Dear told police he has anti- government and anti-abortion views but did not explicitly say that is what moved  him to kill three people including a veteran police officer. Leaders from around  the world will gather in Paris, including President Barack Obama. At least now  10 weather-related deaths are reported in Texas and Kansas and some 11 million  people are under flood warnings. Carson wanted firsthand knowledge of the  situation to better answer how the United States should respond to the crisis.  French newspaper is reporting the detonators were bought at a store north of the  Paris and the owner or the manager of that store contacted police to let them  know Salah Abdeslam had made the purchase after seeing his picture which was  released as a part of this manhunt that has been going on since the night of  November 13th. Meeting tomorrow between Republican presidential candidate Donald  Trump and a group of African-American religious leaders may not be turning out  quite like the campaign had planned. Some of the leaders say they are avoiding  the meeting all together and others are attending but not necessarily endorsing  the candidate afterwards. Russia announcing a set of economic restrictions  against Turkey just as Turkish president Erdogan offered to meet Vladimir Putin  at this week's climate conference in Paris. Gifford passed away in August at the  age 84 and his family had suspicions that he suffered from Chronic Traumatic  Encephalopathy or CTE.         
 FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now in the NEWSROOM.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have heard shots. On the south side of Planned Parenthood.  
WHITFIELD: New details about the suspect accused in that deadly mass shooting in Colorado. Agents swarming his remote home, piecing together a motive and what  his neighbors are now saying about him.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gave us some anti-Obama flyers.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have a lot of recluse out in the middle of nowhere out here.   
WHITFIELD: And clashes break out in Paris. Police firing tear gas at protesters taking to the streets over global climate talks.    And Ben Carson in Jordan getting a firsthand look at the refugee crisis.   
BEN CARSON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There's so many people who think that the ideal for everybody is to come to America and to be settled here but that is  not the ideal for everybody.    "NEWSROOM" starts now.       
WHITFIELD: All right, hello again. And thanks so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.    New details in a possible motive for Friday's deadly shooting at a Colorado  Planned Parenthood. Suspect Robert Lewis Dear talked about baby parts to  investigators after his surrender. A law enforcement official says Dear told  police that he has anti-government and anti- abortion views, but did not  explicitly say that is what moved him to kill three people including a veteran  police officer. Five other officers and four civilians were wounded.    We have also learned propane tanks were found near the suspect's car, possibly  intended to create an explosion. And we are also learning more about the remote  area where the suspect lived 65 miles west of the Colorado Springs Planned  Parenthood clinic. We spoke with some of dear's neighbors.       
ZIGMOND POST, PLANNED PARENTHOOD SUSPECT'S NEIGHBOR: They were nice. Really nice guy. Talking to us and everything. Gave us some anti- Obama flyers, little  pamphlets and I didn't even really read them. I just -- I think I used them to  start the fire in our campfire that night and I saw them at the office on  Wednesday. Said hi to him.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE REPORTER: Did he have anything to say?      
WHITFIELD: Meanwhile, the department of justice is reviewing this incident as possible domestic terrorism. They are also looking at possible hate crime  charges.    CNN's Dan Simon is live in Colorado Springs.    So, Dan, what are local officials telling you about the investigation?   
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, hi, Fredricka. The portrait that has emerged of the suspect, 57-year-old Robert Dear, is that this guy was a complete loner.  He lived in a trailer there in central Colorado. Before that, he lived in a  similar setup in North Carolina far away from civilization.    In terms of his criminal record, he didn't have any. He didn't have any  convictions. Over the years he had encountered with law enforcement but none of  the charges stuck. Just for example, in 1997, his wife at the time accused him  of domestic assault but no charges were brought forward. A few years later he  was charged with actually being a peeping tom, but, again, no charges came as a  result of that.    And just a short time ago, I had a chance to talk with the mayor. And he said  because there seemed to be no violent episodes associated with this suspect,  it's very hard for law enforcement to keep tabs on someone like Robert Dear.  Take a look.       
MAYOR JOHN SOUTHERS, COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO: We have had examples of this in the past. This guy is kind of shaping up to be like a Ted Kaczynski type of  character. Perhaps not quite the loner. But it's very difficult for law  enforcement to deal with individuals like this who don't commit serious crimes  as and get themselves on the radar that way unless a threat is posed beforehand  that they can respond to.   
SIMON: As authorities work to come up with a firm motive, we know the suspect surrendered in the Planned Parenthood. He apparently felt  cornered after about six hours on armored vehicle what is called a bear cat  essentially ran into the building and the suspect just gave up. He dropped his  gun and then surrendered to police. We know that he will have his first court  appearance tomorrow afternoon - Fredricka.   
 WHITFIELD: Dan Simon, thank you so much.   Colorado governor John Hickenlooper addressed the shootings this morning on  CNN's "STATE OF THE UNION" and expressed his concern for frequency of shootings  in the U.S.       
GOV. JOHN HICKENLOOPER, COLORADO: I think we have to come back and look at all aspects of why these shootings have continued to occur in Oregon or South  Carolina or Colorado. The frequency is unacceptable and I don't -- you know, I'm  not willing to say we just have to sit back and accept this as a cost of  freedom. I think we have to really look at how do we address -- how do we make  sure people have -- who are unstable, who have violent histories. You know, if  somehow a level of domestic violence made it much more difficult to get a weapon  made we would not only keep our communities safer but also cut down on domestic  violence?       
WHITFIELD: Governor Hickenlooper ordered flags on all public buildings in the state be lowered to half-staff.    Suspect Robert Lewis Dear, while he will appear in court Monday, right now the  focus in Colorado Springs is on the victims in this tragedy.    I want to talk more about this with Eric Singer, a reporter from the "Colorado  Springs Gazette."    So, Eric, good to see you. You attended both vigils last night. How are people  doing? What are they telling you?   
ERIC SINGER, REPORTER, COLORADO SPRINGS GAZETTE: Well, Frederica, it was a tale of two vigils. The early morning one at the all Souls Unitarian church was one  of a community coming together in mourning but also looking ahead.    In that vigil they were talking about Planned Parenthood support. In the night  vigil, the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs, there was more mourning,  but there was also a cherishing of life, talking about officer Swasey, his  family and his love of duty at the University of Colorado in Colorado Springs. I  did have the opportunity to speak with students and staffers who said he was a  man who really loved what he did and he knew the risks of what he did.   
WHITFIELD: And we know the department of justice is reviewing the case, looking into whether it, indeed, meets the criteria of domestic terrorism and even a  hate crime. What have people in the community been telling you about their  feelings about how this crime should be classified?   
SINGER: Well, at this point, I haven't had the opportunity to speak to members of the community specifically on that topic. Right now, they are still in that  grieving process. Thinking about officer Swasey's family. Thinking about what's  next in this investigation.    And speaking of what's next, just moments ago on the Colorado Springs "Gazette,"  our newspaper here that I work for, we just learned moments ago one of the names  of the other victim. Remember, it was officer Swasey and two civilians. Just  moments ago we learned Kiar Stewartis another victim who has been  identified. We learned that through one of our television news partner, KKTV. So  once again, Kiar Stewartis the other man who has been identified. So we  are waiting for the identification of the other person who was one of the three  who was killed that day.   
WHITFIELD: OK. Well, CNN has not confirmed that but as you said the "Gazette" is reporting that as well as a local affiliate.    Now, we also understand investigators have shared this kind of information with  reporters saying that Robert Lewis Dear spoke about body parts after his  surrender. What more do we know about what he said and what kind of planning may  have gone or what may have been the motivation behind what was carried out?   
SINGER: Well, that no more body parts statement has not been confirmed by the Colorado Spring's "Gazette." We did reach out to our partners in law  enforcement, the Colorado Springs police department and El Paso county sheriff's  office within the last half hour to 45 minutes had said that they are not  confirming that and all sources of information with regards to this case, any  official sources are coming from them. So we have not been able to identify or  confirm that statement coming from him.   
WHITFIELD: OK. And then locally there, what should people expect? We understand that Centennial Boulevard which is where the Planned Parenthood office was,  portions of it remain closed through tomorrow. What more do you know about how  this directly impacting Colorado Spring, the town? How people are able to get  around and about and how they can resume to some normalcy?   
SINGER: Well, Frederica, this is a densely populated area. It's in northwest Colorado Springs. Take a look behind me. And as you can see that is where the  Planned Parenthood center it. And it's about a block to two blocks behind me.    In and around this area, there's shopping centers, there are homes, there are  open spaces. This is densely populated. So when this was all shutdown, we have a  king's supers, we have numerous other stores that are attached to the king's  supers and this all shut down. This centennial Boulevard goes north and south,  fill mortar goes east and west. There's a lot of traffic. Now we have fill more  east and west continuing to be a major thoroughfare. But as you said behind me  probably about 20 blocks or so, that area is still shut down. Because remember,  this is still an active crime scene behind me.   
 WHITFIELD: It is indeed. And I spoke with one woman yesterday who was an eyewitness who crouched in her vehicle when the shooting was taking place.  And she said, you know, that grocery store that she was in the parking lot of is  one she would frequent all the time but now she doesn't feel like she'll be able  to return to it. She is going to change, you know, her patterns that she has  used for years now. Have you heard that from other people there?   
SINGER: You know what I've heard from other people is we're looking ahead. We're grieving now but we're a community in mourning but ahead we have a lot to pause  for. And one of those things to pause for is something mayor John Southers said  last night during the vigil, we will not be defined by this tragedy. We will be  define by heroes, like Officer Swasey.   
WHITFIELD: All right, Eric Singer of the Colorado Springs' "Gazette," thank you so much for your time. Appreciate it.   
SINGER: Thank you, Fredricka.  
WHITFIELD: And we will be right back.  
 WHITFIELD: All right, some terrifying scenes in Paris today as protesters clashed with police. Hundreds of protesters arrested on the streets.  And police firing tear gas to help control the crowd. They are demonstrating a  big climate conference that begins tomorrow. Police banned big protest marches  planned ahead of the conference because of the terror attacks two weeks ago.    Leaders from around the world will gather in Paris, including President Barack  Obama who is on his way there right now.    Senior White House correspondent Jim Acosta joining me live now from Paris.    So Jim, the Paris attacks obviously, you know, looming large over this  conference we know leaders of many countries will be talking about it, but how  will they also tackle the climate change issues?   
 JIM ACOSTA, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, they are determined to do it. And President Obama said before he left for Paris, he is on  his way right now, that this would be one way to show ISIS that the world can  come together and tackle these big problems no matter what happened in Paris a  couple weeks ago. And the White House is determined to see something come to  fruition here. The president is bringing with him the secretary of state,  secretary of interior, energy, the EPA administrator, and so you name it, just  about every relevant cabinet official will be joining the president for this.    But hanging over this summit, Fredricka, will be a lot of tension. This will be  a city on edge over the next few days as more than a hundred leaders from around  the world descend on Paris for these climate talks. And we saw of that tension  playing out on the streets of Paris earlier today. As you said, there were 200  arrests after these clashes between protesters and police. The demonstrators  were protesting the fact that there are new rules in effect that bar these  large-scale demonstrations. That is because of what happened on November 13th  here in Paris, those Paris attacks.    And the French president Francois Hollande, who will be meeting with President  Obama tomorrow evening for dinner, he described these protests as being  scandalous. He is very upset that these protests took place. But nevertheless  the president will be working hard on that climate issue. But at the same time  he is going to be dealing with this issue of how to go about defeating ISIS. He  will be sitting down with Francois Hollande, the French president at dinner  tomorrow night. They will get to catch up on Hollande's meeting with Vladimir  Putin last week. Hollande, obviously, would like to see the U.S. coalition and  Russia work together to defeat ISIS. But all indications, Fredricka, from out of  the White House, out of the Kremlin at this point is that President Obama and  President Putin, they are just not there yet.    But at the same time, you know, the president is determined to see the climate  talks produce something in the end. And they are hopeful what they can do is  have nearly every country on earth that is gathered here for the summit come to  an agreement to commit themselves to limit carbon emissions as global warming  carbon emissions over the next decades. And we will have to see if that gets  done. It's something that is a big priority on the president's agenda. But he  has a lot to tackle when he gets to Paris in a few hours from now -- Fredricka.   
WHITFIELD: Yes. And Jim, as it pertains to terrorism and ISIS, you know, among the nation's leaders that some are hoping might get together. We know the  Turkey's Erdogan is trying to meet with Russia's Vladimir Putin. Last we  reported and knew, Putin was giving Turkey the cold shoulder. Any news that you  can report out of Paris for us?   
ACOSTA: Well, I think that is going to be one of the topics that the president will have to deal with when he gets here to Paris. Obviously, you know, I was at  the press conference last week. President Obama made no, you know, he made no  bones about it. The United States is standing with Turkey in defending its  airspace, defending its territory. We did see the Turkish president offer some  words of condolences to the Russians for the downing of that aircraft, but it  didn't go as far as the kremlin wanted. And it just goes to show you that the  president has a very big problem to deal with in Syria right now. And that is  you have various players with various agendas and sometimes there can be big  problems when these two military forces, the United States and its coalition and  Russia clash with one another over the skies of Syria and in the view of the  Turks over the skies of Turkey. And so that will certainly be something they  have to iron out.    The U.S. is not saying at this point, Fredricka, that President Obama will meet  with Vladimir Putin. They are not supposed to have a bilateral meeting but it's  likely that they will meet on the sidelines of the summit. Every time they have  one of these big gatherings, those two leaders tend to meet on the sidelines.    When we were in Turkey as you remember, Fredricka, the cameras were rolling and  we saw Presidents Obama and Putin talking to one another. It was fascinating  thing to see. And perhaps we will see that play out again here in Paris. We will  just have to wait and see.   
WHITFIELD: Sometimes it produces opportunities.   All right, thanks so much, Jim Acosta, appreciate that from Paris.   
ACOSTA: That's right.  
WHITFIELD: All right. Straight ahead, new details about the suspects still on the run in the Paris attacks. We will go live to Brussels for the latest on  that.   
 WHITFIELD: All right, this just in. New details on the lead suspect still on the run after the Paris terror attacks. A source close to the  investigation tells CNN that Salah Abdeslam bought detonators before the attacks  in France.    Alexandra Field is in Brussels with more on the story.    So what more are we learning, Alexandra?   
ALEXANDRA FIELD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fredricka.   We certainly know that Salah Abdeslam is the most-wanted man in connection with  these attacks. And authorities have over the last couple weeks spelled out what  they believe parts of his alleged role may have been. We know that his brother  was one of the suicide bombers. We also know Salah and his brother rented the  cars that were used in the attacks. But we are now learning from investigators  that Salah Abdeslam did purchase detonators prior to the Paris attacks. A French  newspaper is reporting the detonators were bought at a store north of the Paris  and the owner or the manager of that store contacted police to let them know  Salah Abdeslam had made the purchase after seeing his picture which was released  as a part of this manhunt that has been going on since the night of November  13th.    That's when Salah Abdeslam was able to make his way out of Paris and back to  Brussels. He slipped through that police dragnet in a car with two other men  because at the time police didn't know who they were looking for yet. The  question now, where is he? It's an international hundredth but you have the U.S.  homeland security committee chair weighing in saying he believes investigators  are closer to finding the man they've been looking for.    Listen to what he told Brianna Keilar on state of the union just this morning.       
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Mr. Chairman, do you know anything about whether investigators may be closer to finding Abdeslam? Do you  think they have a sense of whether he's still in Europe for instead he may have  made his way to Syria?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, I can't get into that level of specificity. I don't want to compromise their investigation. I think they're closing in on him and  that's good news. There are many involved in this plot. It's a very  sophisticated plot, an external operation that we've seen from ISIS. You  mentioned the bombing of the Russian airliner. This is a new ISIS, a new chapter  for them to conduct three external operations in just recent times.       
FIELD: Throughout Brussels and really throughout Belgium there is however still very serious concern about where Salah Abdeslam could be and whether or not he  has a network that is helping to support him, you are helping to hide him from  authorities, the terror alert level was at its highest for most of the week,  level 4. It's now dropped down to level three, but the hunt for Salah continues.  Authorities are also looking for another man, Fred. That is the man who was seen  with Salah Abdeslam just two days before the terror attacks.   
WHITFIELD: All right, Alexandra Field, thank you so much for that update.   So, again, the detonators purchased by Salah Abdeslam in France but still he,  the primary suspect, still on the run. Thanks so much.    All right, back in this country, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump  inviting several prominent African-American religious leaders to meet with him  tomorrow but many are saying no. Next, we will talk to a pastor in Atlanta who  says he was invited to the meeting. We will find out if he plans to attend,  next.   
 WHITFIELD: All right. Hello again. And thanks so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. A meeting tomorrow between Republican presidential  candidate Donald Trump and a group of African- American religious leaders may  not be turning out quite like the campaign had planned. Some of the leaders say  they are avoiding the meeting all together and others are attending but not  necessarily endorsing the candidate afterwards.    Bishop Corletta Vaughn who appears on Oxygen reality series "Preachers of  Detroit" says she was invited but posted this on her Facebook page saying quote  "Trump is an insult and embarrassment but he represents the country we have  become. Zero tolerance, flaunting a ticket of unbridled bigotry, sexism, racism  and everything that is wrong with America," end quote. The Trump campaign said  today that will be an informational meet and greet but added a number of  attendees are expected to endorse Trump. The campaign canceled a press  conference following that meeting.    Bishop Paul Morton joining me here in Atlanta. He is the founder of the full  gospel Baptist Church Fellowship in Atlanta. Bishop Morton, good to see you.   
 BISHOP PAUL MORTON, FOUNDER, FULL GOSPEL BAPTIST CHURCH FELLOWSHIP: It is good to be here.   
WHITFIELD: So you have been invited?  
MORTON: Yes, I was invited to the first meeting in Atlanta. That was the foundation as they was laying it out in Atlanta and I so refused to go. You  know, the pastors that was organizing here.   
WHITFIELD: Why?  
MORTON: Because I just feel as though if I'm a kingdom representative, I represent the kingdom of God. So they kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as  it is in heaven. What Donald Trump is representing right now, the insults, the  degrading is not what we are all about. So for me to endorse somebody like that  where you have no respect for people. I mean, with the women, I think that was a  disgrace and just the disabled reporter. That is unbelievable. Even the way they  pulled the man out, black lives matter. It's like a bully in the 21st century.  It's not presidential. I think if you're going to be a president you have to be  presidential.    Now I don't mind -- I want to make it clear I don't mind pastors going that go  and pray for Mr. Trump. But in the prayer, I think that they need to say to Mr.  Trump, listen, you need to apologize to women, you need to apologize to  immigrants, the list goes on and on. And if he comes out and says, look, I just  met men of God and women of God and I'm sorry then you can look at him  differently. But right now he doesn't believe in apologizing so that's not what  I'm looking for. I'm leading people and the same kind of people he's hurting,  how do I go back and say, "we're endorsing him but he's talking bad about us?"   
WHITFIELD: So you have certainly justified why not to endorse. But then what would be the harm in meeting or is there concern that meeting a Donald Trump  might be misconstrued as an endorsement just by being in the same room, having  dialogue?   
MORTON: Well, I see that there is kind of a change in the meeting now because it was supposed to be a meeting to endorse. Again, I don't mind pastors going. I  think it's our obligation, we meet with anybody. That, to me, is important. But  we should be meeting to counsel. To counsel you. What are you doing, Mr. Trump?  You are degrading people.   
WHITFIELD: Do you think this meeting could become that potentially for those pastors who are religious leaders who have said yes to meeting and perhaps they  have some of the same views and trepidations that you just expressed might they  or is it possible that some would take that opportunity to say let's talk about  what we don't necessarily agree with or what we are what concerns us about your  rhetoric and kind use it as teaching moment?   
MORTON: Well, with Mr. Trump, I think that would be dangerous. I mean if you invited Mr. Trump to the church, to say meet us at the church. We want to talk  to you, but on his grounds at Trump towers? He would say all of you all get out  of here. So to me that would be a problem. But I think it's necessary for  somebody to speak into his life. If he is serious about being president, you  can't keep insulting everybody. It is just - you are supposed to be bringing  people together. And I know you may be rich and all of that but you have to  respect people. And that's the problem they had in the bible. There was a king  that was just intoxicated with power. And when you get drunk with power and  think that you don't have to apologize to anybody, you don't have to, you know,  humble yourself, you're not going to make it. And so, I think that that's the  job of a preacher to really speak that into his life. So the best way to speak  into his life was I'm not coming until you do better.   
WHITFIELD: And is it ever customary for you to mix politics and the pulpit? Have you in the past openly endorsed a candidate? If you were to endorse one in this  derail, would it be unusual?   
MORTON: No, it would not. In fact, we encourage our pastors, you know, our presiding bishopeven encourages pastors to get involved in  politics. We have to. We are making major decisions in our lives. And so we want  to make sure the right people are in place, so we have endorsed. I think that  that's important. But you sit down. You talk first. You don't have to rush and  do this. You have to see who is in. What is your policy? So that's what we have  to look at. So yes, I have no problem in endorsing. But right now in this  particular situation, no way.   
 WHITFIELD: OK. And you're talking this situation, not Trump. Is there anyone in the landscape right now who you feel comfortable? Who you think does  represent the principles that you just spelled out?   
MORTON: I know we often say African-Americans go with the Democrats, but I want to talk with the Democrats because now they are encroaching on the grounds of  the church as it relates to what the church believes in, what the bible believes  in. So anybody that goes with the bible, I want to know is the churchgoing going  to be protected as it relates to these things coming out.    Laws are for the land but the church must be protected. And I want somebody to  stand up and say no matter what the church will be respected. The church will be  protected.   
WHITFIELD: So that's a point Republican Ted Cruz has been making. Do you like anything else about what Ted Cruz may have said that would entice you? That  would be enough that he would win your endorsement?   
MORTON: No, that's not an -- you know, again, I listen to people's heart and I think that that's what's important so that's why I carefully, carefully pray and  choose. Carefully pray and choose. So at this particular time there is just  nobody that I'm really seeing that's really answering the kingdom agenda for me.   
WHITFIELD: So the jury is still out?  
MORTON: The jury is still out. WHITFIELD: All right. Bishop Morton, thank you so much for your time, appreciate it.   
MORTON: Thank you. Bless you.  
WHITFIELD: Thank you.   All right. Don't forget the next Republican presidential debate right here on  CNN, Tuesday, December 15. 9:00 p.m. eastern.   
 WHITFIELD: The body of the Russian pilot killed after his jet was shot down by the Turkish military will soon be headed home. His body was  delivered to Turkey this morning from just across the border in Syria and will  be returned to Russia. This comes as tensions escalate between Turkey and  Russia. Russia announcing a set of economic restrictions against Turkey just as  Turkish president Erdogan offered to meet Vladimir Putin at this week's climate  conference in Paris.    I want to bring in Liz Wahl. She is a journalist and former anchor at "Russia  Today."    Good to see you, Liz. So, do you see on the horizon that Putin would meet with  the Turkish leader or will they continue to give him the cold shoulder?   
LIZ WAHL, FREELANCE JOURNALIST: Well, based on his actions right now it looks like he is not really very warm to a possible meeting with the Turkish leader.  It seems like he does want an apology. From what we have seen with Putin's  actions so far, he really does portray this role of a strong man and he really  wants to portray that projection of power. And I think it's not really in his  nature to back down. And it seems like an apology really is what he is searching  for. It doesn't look like that is what he is going to get. So even with the  Turkish president, you know, trying to show a gesture of wanting to talk at the  climate summit, I could see a possible snub from Putin the way things are going  right now.   
WHITFIELD: And at the same time, is there a feeling from, say, perhaps it's Russia's point of view that there is some need of cooperation with Turkey given  that Turkey stands right in between, you know, that flight route to Syria? So,  you know, for how long can I guess talks between Turkey and Russia or some sort  of arrangement go on?   
WAHL: Right. Well, I think -- I always say with my experience the headlines and the rhetoric coming out of the kremlin and Russian media can be indicative of  what we can expect. And right now what we are seeing is some really, really  strong and heightened rhetoric coming out of Russian media. We hear from the  kremlin saying that Turkey is an accomplice to terrorism. A top Russian official  had hinted that Turkey is actually buying oil from ISIS which is unsubstantiated  and the Turkish president had fired back at that. So we are seeing - and you  have to think that obviously this is a very, very serious incident, the shooting  down of the jet. But for years now this kind of anti-NATO climate has been  really been ramped up in Russian media, so I mean, for a long time now there has  been this kind of climate of fear against NATO and against western powers  portraying NATO as the aggressor. And as Russia kind of being in this position  as needed to defend its borders.    So I think unfortunately I think this kind of underscores this greater, I guess,  issue or possibility of Russia being able to work in coalition with NATO to  defend ISIS and this is just kind of just another roadblock in what hopefully  Hollande met with both leaders in the U.S. and with Russia it seems like a point  of a coalition against ISIS is becoming less feasible as these events unfold.   
WHITFIELD: And then Liz, I wonder if - I mean, is there a simple explanation as to what's behind Vladimir Putin's allegiance to Bashar al-Assad?   
WAHL: Well, I think it has to do with -- well, it's interesting because when he had first intervened in Syria it kind of raised eyebrows what exactly were his  intentions there. Well, I think one of those is to distract from what was going  on in Ukraine which is essentially a frozen conflict right now. I just came back  from the Baltic States and there is widespread fear there that people are  forgetting what's happening in Ukraine and the greater implications of that. And  if that was one of the goals certainly that's helped because everyone is talking  about Syria now and not Ukraine. So, there is that.    And that also, there is this idea - I mean, Bashar al-Assad is an ally. And so,  it enables him to prop up one of his only supporters and allies in the Middle  East. And also to have a say, and some power over the future of Syria. And we  are seeing in the many theaters and many aspects, Putin trying to insert himself  into the geopolitical stage right now.   
WHITFIELD: All right. All good information. Thank you so much Liz Wahl. Good to see you.   
WAHL: Thank you, Fredricka. Appreciate it.  
WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson now talking about his visit with Syrian refugees in Jordan.       
CARSON: In these camps they have school, they have recreational facilities that are really quite nice.       
WHITFIELD: Next, we will talk about what else he says he learned from that trip.  
 WHITFIELD: Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson is wrapping up a trip to Jordan today after visiting two Syrian refugee camps there. Earlier  he appeared on CNN's "STATE OF THE UNION" and detailed what he learned from this  trip.       
CARSON: The thing that I have really learned here in listening to the refugees themselves is their intense desire to return to their own country and be  repatriated. There is so many people who think that the ideal for everybody is  to come to America.       
WHITFIELD: All right. Joining me right now from the White House is our Sunlen Serfaty.    So Sunlen, does it can feel like this trip has help straighten him?   
SUNLEN SERFATY, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think, Fred, there's a perception that certainly talking about meeting with these refugees firsthand.  It does help boost up at least his knowledge of what's going on in the region.  You saw Ben Carson going out on many of the Sunday shows this morning talking  about his visit to Jordan, along the border, meeting with those Syrian refugees.    This comes at a time where he is among peer pressure to really show off his  foreign policy credentials questions about his level of experience. So this trip  was most certainly a desire on the part of Ben Carson's campaign to really boost  up his knowledge base in the region.    And he spoke today really what his key takeaway seems to be from those  conversations with the refugees and which he asked them would you rather stay  here at this refugee camp in Jordan or would you rather prefer to be resettled  in the United States. And here's what he said on "STATE OF THE UNION" about what  he concluded over the weekend.       
CARSON: Their true desire is to be resettled in Syria. But, you know, they are satisfied to be in the refugee camps if the refugee camps are adequately funded.  Recognize that in these camps, they have schools, they have recreational  facilities that are really quite nice and they're putting in all kinds of things  that make life more tolerable. Would it be better to integrate them into the  society? Yes. And I certainly talked to some people about that. But, you know,  you have to make progress as you go.       
SERFATY: And Ben Carson later went on to say that he believes that the United States should basically be spending more money and aid to these refugee camps,  Fred, rather than just taking in more refuge refugees for resettlement -- Fred.   
WHITFIELD: All right. Sunlen Serfaty, at the White House. Thanks much.   All right, still ahead, new details on Frank Gifford following the news that he  suffered from a brain disease at the time of his death.   
 WHITFIELD: All right. Checking our top story, the man has been arrested following the shooting death of Pennsylvania police officer. Lloyd Reed  was killed while responding to a domestic dispute east of Pittsburgh.  Investigators say the 31-year-old, Ray Shetler Jr., shot Reed and ran. Shetler,  rather, was captured two hours later.    And two women walking along a bike path in Campton, California find a newborn  buried alive. A neighbor describes what happened.       
ANGEL FLORES, NEIGHBOR OF THE WOMEN WHO FOUND THE BABY: And that hole there was -- I believe that's the hole and it had pieces of wood on top of it with rocks  on top of it. And when she took the stuff out, she found a newborn baby.       
WHITFIELD: Unbelievable. That baby girl believed to be just about two days old was under a foot of asphalt and debris. Deputies took the newborn to the  hospital. She is in stable condition. And police are looking now for the parents  who will face attempted murder and child endangerment charges.    And the NFL's concussion issue is topping headlines again now that the family of  Frank Gifford has announced that he suffered from the brain disease CTE. Gifford  played for the New York Giants where he suffered one of the worst hits ever in a  football game. Almost 55 years ago Gifford took a vicious blow that would knock  him out of the game for an entire year. NFL commissioner Roger Goodell released  a statement following the Gifford announcement writing this quote "we are  working now to improve the safety of our game. The NFL has made numerous rules  changes to the game, all to enhance player health and safety at all levels of  the game," end quote.    Here's CNN's Coy Wire.   
COY WIRE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Gifford passed away in August at the age 84. And at the time his family had suspicions that he suffered from Chronic Traumatic  Encephalopathy or CTE. His brain was studies and pathologist confirmed the  family's suspicions. CTE is a progressive and debilitating brain disease linked  to the types of brain injuries and head trauma common in football. The Gifford  family said it decided to make his diagnosis public to honor Gifford's  commitment to promoting player safety. Dating back to his involvement in  creating the NFL players association, a union representing players' interest in  1956.    No, NFL commissioner Roger Goodell issued a statement saying in part, the NFL  has made numerous rules changes to the game all to enhance player health and  safety at all levels of football. This work will continue as the health and  safety of you our players remains our highest priority. We have more work to do,  work that honors great men like Frank Gifford.    This is yet another high profile player to be linked to CTE. And the news comes  just days after St. Louis Rams quarterbackhad his head slammed to  the turf during a game. And team trainers and staff did not remove him from  play. The NFL conducted a review of the situation and admitted that the new  concussion protocols failed when Keenan was allowed to remain in the game. Now,  because of that the NFL said it's now considering discipline for future protocol  failures. This all comes with just five weeks remaining in the NFL's regular  season.   
WHITFIELD: Coy Wire, thank you so much for that report. And we have so much more straight ahead in the NEWSROOM and it all starts right now.       
WHITFIELD: Happening now in the NEWSROOM.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shots on the south side of Planned Parenthood.  
WHITFIELD: New details about the suspect accused in that deadly mass shooting in Colorado. Agents swarming his remote home, piecing together a motive and what  his neighbors are now saying about him.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gave us some anti-Obama flyers.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have a lot of recluse out in the middle of nowhere out here.   
WHITFIELD: And clashes break out in Paris. Police firing tear gas at protesters taking to the streets over global climate talks.       
