    
HIGHLIGHT: Unprecedented security surrounding world leaders in Paris as President Obama urges new actions to fight climate change. New information in  the manhunt for one of Paris attackers, did the terrorist escape to Syria?  Donald Trump is back on the campaign trail in New Hampshire today after a  meeting with black pastors that added up to less than originally advertised.     
 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now: unprecedented security surrounding world leaders in Paris as President Obama urges new actions to fight  climate change.   
ALISON KOSIK, CNN ANCHOR: New information in the manhunt for one of Paris attackers. Did the terrorist escape to Syria? We're live.    Good morning. And welcome to EARLY START. I'm Alison Kosik.   
ROMANS: Nice to see you this morning. I'm Christine Romans. John Berman has the morning off.    It is Tuesday. It is December 1st, 4:00 a.m. in the East.    Happening now: President Obama on his last day in Paris for the climate change  summit amid extremely tight security. Heads of state from nearly 150 countries,  40,000 delegates, they're meeting with one mission, to hammer out legally  binding reductions in greenhouse gasses, keeping global warming under a crucial  threshold, 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit.    Already, the leaders of the two biggest greenhouse emitters, China and the U.S.,  they have met. But the summit takes place under the shadow of repeated failures  to reach or to keep past climate deals.    Joining us from Paris with the latest, senior European correspondent Jim  Bittermann.    Good morning, Jim.   
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR EUROPEAN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Christine.   In fact, President Obama meeting right now with President Erdogan of Turkey.  That meeting takes on some urgency because of the fact that the Turks shot down  that Russian attack jet just a couple of days ago. And that's increased  tensions. The U.S. has already urged Turkey to ease things, ease off with  Russia. And Russia would the same. The president met with Putin yesterday.    But in any case, Obama has a meeting with the small island nations who take this  conference very, very importantly because they, in fact, could be flooded if  waters continue to rise. They believe that the goal set by the United Nations of  two degrees, keeping global warming to two degrees, in fact, is not ambitious  enough because at two degrees, they feel their nations are going to be flooded.  And then after that, the president holds a news conference at the organization  of development and flies back to Washington.    Basically, the leaders here now have set the stage for the rest of the  conference, which happens over the next two weeks. All of the officials that are  left behind here are going to be debating all of the clauses and sub-clauses in  this 50-page document and trying to come up with something that everybody can  agree on -- Christine.   
ROMANS: So, Jim, there have been so many meetings in the past and so many, you know, false starts at the real global climate change initiative. Is there a  feeling this time it's different?   
BITTERMAN: There is a feeling of that and I think one -- we saw some of that yesterday. Every leader spoke to the necessity of doing something right now. The  urgency of taking on climate change right now. President Hollande said in his  opening remarks, you guys have the future of the planet in your hands. So, I  think they all take that responsibility seriously. The question is if they can  come to agreement on all the details.    Now, 180, more than 180 nations of the 195 here have already set out targets,  for the next five years or century or whatever they set up. They set the bar for  themselves. Whether they can hold that bar is the question.   
ROMANS: All right. Jim Bittermann for us live in Paris this morning -- thank you, Jim.   
KOSIK: President Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin huddling for 30 minutes on the sidelines for the climate talks in Paris. The two leaders working  on solving the Syrian crisis, even agreeing to drawing up two lists to  distinguish between that country's extremists and legitimate opposition groups.    President Obama also expressing regret to Putin over the downing of one of his  fighter jets by Turkey.    Let's go live to Moscow and bring in CNN senior international correspondent  Matthew Chance.    You know, it sounds like the discussion was productive, but there was a picture  that came out of that sideline meeting showing a lot of coldness. Did Obama and  Putin even look each other in the eye?   
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It's hard to say. But, I mean, it's no secret, Alison, that the two leaders have not gotten on in the  past several years. They have all various incidents, not least Ukraine, a couple  of years. Now, of course, they're on essentially different sides of the line  when it comes to the future of Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian president.    Much of this short huddle in Paris on the sidelines of the climate change summit  discussed Syria, of course, as you mentioned. The United States very keen for  the situation between Russia and Turkey, a NATO ally, to be deescalated as soon  as possible. Turkey, of course, last week, shot down a Russian warplane as it  was carrying out a bombing mission against rebels inside Syria, on the  Turkish-Syria border.     The United States saying the Russian -- the U.S. president saying,  "We regret the loss of the Russian pilot and crew member." So, he was expressing  regret for thewhich occurred where the pilot was killed, so is the  Russian marine on the ground in the rescue efforts. The Kremlin spun it  differently as saying that President Obama expressed regret that the incident  took place, which is a slight difference of nuance there. But basically, you  know, the U.S. and Russians talking about this instance outlining the resolution  of the Syrian conflict.   
KOSIK: Any sign of Vladimir Putin meeting with Erdogan? Any inkling of that?  
CHANCE: Well, it didn't take place. Vladimir Putin said that he was going to meet the president of Turkey and he didn't. In the press conference he gave  after the summit speech as well, he again made this allegation that the reason  the Russian plane was shot out of the sky was because it was trying to protect  the illicit oil routes between ISIS and Turkey, which he says that was why the  Russian plane which was attacking the oil routes had been shot down. It's  something the Turkish president categorically denies, calling on Vladimir Putin  to prove if it's true.   
KOSIK: All right. Matthew Chance, thanks so much.  
ROMANS: Chilling new details this morning emerging on the Paris terror attacks. Sources telling CNN the terrorists may have been planning more far-reaching  attacks than previously known. This as we learned the attacker who survived,  Salah Abdeslam, may have successfully escaped to Syria.    Joining us now from Paris for the latest on this is, CNN's Phil Black.    And, Phil, it is as if this trail has gone cold.   
PHIL BLACK, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it seems at the case at the morning, Christine, sources have told CNN that French intelligence is operating  under the theory that Salah Abdeslam has somehow slipped the net here in Europe  and already traveled to ISIS controlled terrorist in Syria.    What this means if true is that Abdeslam, effectively, Europe's most wanted man,  who is believed to have been in Paris on the night of the attacks traveled to  Belgium and then sort of disappeared hasn't been seen since, somehow traveled  from Europe to a country bordering Syria before heading over the border -- a  journey that would have involved some sort of international air travel. This is  a man whose name and face and identity has been everywhere here since the Paris  attacks. It would be a disturbing developing for E.U. security officials here.  But security officials in Brussels are really hunting for this man in Belgium  because that is where he was believed to have been say they don't have any  concrete information that he has already left, but they believe that was his  goal, to try and get there, to try and get back to ISIS-controlled territory in  Syria.    Meanwhile, a source close to the Paris attacks investigation has hold CNN they  believe they have information suggesting that the group responsible for the  attacks here in Paris had other plots, in their words, ready to go. And these  plots were targeting Jewish areas, transportation networks and schools. The  information is set to come from the man who presented himself voluntarily to  French police, and he was involved directly with one of the people involved in  planning the attacks here, the woman who was killed during the police raid in  the apartment in the Paris area of Saint-Denis in the days after the Paris  attacks themselves.    Now, this comes on top of the information saying they disrupted that group  conducted that raid just in time to prevent it from carrying out an attack  against the financial district in Paris. All of this suggests that the ambition  of this group was greater than just the attacks they successfully carried out  here, killing 130 people, Christine.   
ROMANS: All right. Phil Black, some disturbing new developments at how extensive this may have been. Thanks for that, Phil.   
KOSIK: The White House tightening the visa waiver program. The move is designed to stop people who have visited conflict zones from routinely boarding the  U.S.-bound commercial flights. The administration is hoping to prevent the  attacks like the one in Paris. The measures include stiffer fines for airlines  that don't verify passenger IDs and increased information sharing with other  nations.   
ROMANS: Nine minutes past the hour. A new month, time for an early start on your money.    Asian stocks finished their day higher this morning. European stocks mixed. U.S.  stock futures are up for the first day of December. Yesterday, a dip, but  overall, stocks managed to eek out a gain. The Dow climbed a whopping 0.3  percent. But still, it was a gain.    It was a record Cyber Monday. Early estimates -- early estimates show $3 billion  in sales, up 12 percent from a year earlier, proof that Cyber Monday is  important, is growing quickly, or at least the importance of online sales.     And more sales on mobile phones than ever before. Not everyone had  the best. Target's Web site crashed because of all the traffic. So, the site set  up a queue so some people could shop while others waited.   
KOSIK: I went on Target's Web site. Put a bunch of things into my shopping bag and couldn't check out. And I gave up and went to sleep.   
ROMANS: You did. Maybe you are in a queue, I would make sure you don't actually --   
KOSIK: Too late. One day only.   Donald Trump asking dozens of black pastors to endorse him in the race for  president. What happened inside that meeting, next.   
ROMANS: Donald Trump back on the campaign trail in New Hampshire today after a meeting with black pastors that added up to less than originally advertised. The  Trump campaign initially scheduled a news conference after this private meeting,  claiming 100 African-American pastors would endorse the GOP frontrunner.     Now, that part of the event, that was canceled after several pastors  listed said that they had no plans to endorse him. Even so, Trump emerged from  this private meeting, declaring, quote, "I saw love in that room."    CNN's Sara Murray has more.       
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICS REPORTER: Tonight, we heard Donald Trump go after a rival he doesn't usually target: Bernie Sanders, taking a job at the Democratic  presidential candidate for undergoing an elective hernia surgery, saying it is  the result of his liberal policies.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The biggest crowd by far, so much bigger than Bernie Sanders, you know, you always hear about Bernie Sanders, our  crowds.        Maybe he rest in peace. You know he had an operation today. I think it was a  hernia operation. You know? You know why? Carrying around too much tax problems  because he's going to tax you -- he's going to tax you. Let's not talk tax  problems. He wants to double and triple everyone's -- he wants to bring you up  to 90 percent -- 90 percent.       
MURRAY: Donald Trump was campaigning here in Macon, Georgia. That was after the meeting in New York City with the African-American pastors. He said that meeting  was an inspiration. The campaign had invited 100 pastors to meet with Trump. But  several of them said they were not interested in meeting with him or supporting  the GOP frontrunner.    Still, Trump declared it a success.   
TRUMP: We actually didn't think we were going to be having a press conference, but we all thought it was such a good meeting, we would do that. And we have  many, many endorsements that came out of the meeting 
. MURRAY: Now, he may nothave left that meeting with 100 endorsements, but he certainly met with a couple and he was joined here in Macon, Georgia, with another big booster, 2012  presidential candidate Herman Cain got the crowd fired up before Trump took the  stage.       
KOSIK: OK. Sara, thanks. Protesters marched through Baltimore as jury selection in the first Freddie Gray death trial begins. What happened inside the courtroom  and what's set for today, next.   
 KOSIK: Day two of jury selection in the trial of Baltimore police officer William Porter. He's the first of six cops to stand trial in connection  with the arrest of and death of Freddie Gray. A new batch of jurors will be  questioned today with the judge hoping to have a jury seated by Wednesday.    Protesters gathered outside the courthouse Monday. Gray's death in police  custody sparked riots in the city and Baltimore is again on edge.    We get more now from CNN's Miguel Marquez.       
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Christine, Alison, protests mark the first day of the trial in the officer in the death of Freddie Gray, about 40  protesters gathered at the end of the court day. They chanted at the courthouse  and then they marched to inner harbor, the very touristy area of Baltimore. That  after the judge was unable to get a jury together on the first day. He met to  about 75 jurors, more than half African-American, many of them said they were  unable to attend the full trial for one reason or another.    The judge ended by saying that he would have another panel of 75 or so jurors  come in today, later today. And they will try to get to those 12 jurors, plus we  believe three alternates by Wednesday. The judge saying at the very beginning of  the first day of trial that he wanted to start this trial, have opening  statements by Wednesday and he expects this trial to be wrapped up on or before  December 17th -- Christine, Alison.       
ROMANS: All right. Miguel, thank you for that.   The man accused of killing three at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado  Springs facing a judge for the first time since the shootings: 57-year-old  Robert Dear appearing by video from jail. He was told he is being held on  suspicion of first-degree murder which could mean life in prison or the death  penalty if he's convicted. Dear will be formally charged with a court hearing  next week.   
KOSIK: For the first the first time since his arrest in the Laquan McDonald shooting, Chicago Police Officer Jason Van Dyke is free on bond. Van Dyke posted  the $1.5 million bond on Monday. He is charged with first degree murder for  allegedly shooting the black teenager 16 times. Police dashcam video footage was  released last week, more than a year after the shooting actually happened.   
ROMANS: A 21-year-old man arrested for allegedly threatening to kill students and staff at the University of Chicago. That threat shut the school down on  Monday. The suspect identified as Jabari Dean. Police say he posted a message on  social media over the Thanksgiving weekend. He threatened to kill 16 white male  students or staffers. That's the same number of shots the white Chicago police  officer fired when he killed 17-year-old Laquan McDonald.    Lawyers for Boston marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev will be back in court,  federal court today, seeking a new trial. Tsarnaev, you'll recall, was convicted  and sentenced to death back in June for the marathon attacks. Since then, the  Supreme Court struck down parts of the law Tsarnaev was convicted under. The  judge who oversaw the trial is scheduled to hear arguments on the defense motion  for a new motion. Tsarnaev will not be in court for the hearing.   
ROMANS: All right. Twenty-four minutes past the hour.   Will world leaders convening with a new pledge to fight climate change? But in  the city of Paris, the war in terror remains front and center. We will take you  live to Paris, next.   
 KOSIK: Happening now, President Obama with world leaders meeting to fight climate change. But in Paris, the war on terror remaining front and  center.   
ROMANS: New information this morning in the manhunt for one of the Paris attackers, as we've learned about new attacks the ringleader planned before he  was killed.    Welcome back to EARLY START. I'm Christine Romans.   
KOSIK: And I'm Alison Kosik. It's half past the hour.   And happening now: President Obama on his last day in Paris for the climate  change summit amid extremely tight security. Heads of state from nearly 150  countries, 40,000 delegates, they're meeting with one mission, to hammer out  legally binding reductions in greenhouse gasses, keeping global warming under a  crucial threshold, 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, two degree Celsius.    Already, the leaders of the two biggest greenhouse emitters, China and the U.S.,  they have met. But the summit takes place under the shadow of the repeated  failures to reach or keep to pass climate deals.    Joining us from Paris with the latest, senior European correspondent Jim  Bittermann -- Jim.   
BITTERMANN: Alison, good morning. In fact, President Obama meeting right now with President Erdogan of Turkey.   
