  
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: All right, this refugee problem is getting out of control right now, and now a Democratic congressman wants to remind folks, how are we  going to deal with it here?    The widely respected Henry Cuellar joining us right now.    Congressman, good to have you.       
REP. HENRY CUELLAR, TEXAS: Thank you.  
CAVUTO: Your worry is that we really haven`t found a way to deal with this, essentially, right?   
CUELLAR: We still have a problem with so many people coming in.   Last year, we had 62,000 kids that came in, 40,000 of them unaccompanied, 22,000  of them with parents. These are from Central America. We had about 87, 90  Syrians that came in this last fiscal year in South Texas, and then also Cubans.    Cubans -- we had about 45,000 Cubans that came in through the southwest part of  the border, about 27,000 of them through my hometown of Laredo. So...       
CAVUTO: So, what do we do about the Syrians? Now, we have got a freeze on taking them in. What do you want to see?    The administration says that we have safeguarded to make sure they`re secure and  checked out. I know you were among those who said, well, we better have a system  in place to make it even more so. Are you satisfied we do or are you not there  yet?   
CUELLAR: No, I don`t think we`re there.   We had -- we heard some of the administration officials say that they cannot say  that people coming in are going to be secured. So, how are we not going to let  people in where we -- not have -- we don`t have the right vetting? And that`s  one thing. That`s one of the reasons I supported that, because I`m not saying  don`t let people in, but if we`re going to let somebody in, we have got to make  sure they`re not coming in to hurt us.   
CAVUTO: What do you think, Congressman? Apparently, in the Senate, the holdup could be Harry Reid, who doesn`t even want to take up the measure. Now, I don`t  know how it works in the Senate, whether the minority leader can stop  legislation from going forward or even being voted on. But what do you think of  that?   
CUELLAR: Well, I think as -- I think probably what they`re looking at is, they got to get 60 votes to get something done.   
CAVUTO: Right. Right.  
CUELLAR: You know, my thing is not only look at the refugees, but look at the visa waivers, look at overstays. There`s a lot of areas that people can come in.    And we just got to be smarter on how we let people in. We should let them in  under the law. But if somebody is going to come in, we got to do the proper  vetting, no ifs, no buts.   
CAVUTO: All right, proper vetting is tough, right, though, when there are no paper trails or records.    A lot of these guys come in because they -- they`re seeking asylum. They run in  with whatever they have on their back and their kids, whatever. But in the case  of some countries, like in Canada, no single males allowed. What do you think of  that strategy?   
CUELLAR: Well, again, that`s something that I think everything should be put on the table.    I think, if a child comes in, 4 or 5 years, that should be given a different  consideration from somebody who is military-age, let`s say 18 to 24. I mean,  that`s a different type of consideration we need to look at.   
CAVUTO: Right.  
CUELLAR: So, we have to put everything on the table. Again, we`re a compassionate country.    But, at the same time, we can`t be dumb about it. We got to be smart on who  comes into the United States. It`s our -- it`s our security, it`s our community.  And we got to just be smarter on how we let people in. We just can`t say open  the doors to anybody coming in. We have got to make sure they`re secure before  they come in.   
CAVUTO: Congressman, while I have you here, we`re getting more details on this plan outlined by Defense Secretary Ash Carter on Capitol Hill about dealing with  the ISIS threat.    He`s looking at 200 special operations forces, including intelligence personnel,  some pilots to position them, mechanics to maintain their aircraft. Your  thoughts on that?   
CUELLAR: Look, we have to do what we need to do.   If we have to put boots on the ground, special ops folks, we need to do that. If  we think we`re going to ignore ISIS and think that they`re going to stay in  their part of the world and not coming over to us, it`s not going to happen.    We have seen that just bombs by themselves, or bombing by themselves, it`s not  going to solve the problem. We saw that during World War II, the Germans and  Great Britain. We`re seeing that recently.    So, if we have to put more operation forces there, special operations forces,  let`s do it, because they`re not going to ignore us. They`re going to come after  us. I would rather go after them first.   
CAVUTO: All right, Congressman, thank you for taking the time. Always good seeing you.   
CUELLAR: Thank you so much.  
CAVUTO: Texas Congressman Henry Cuellar.  
