  
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: Want to get the read from this from former FBI investigator Bill Daly.    Bill, first on this attorney general appearance with the FBI director. As you  know, the administration has been criticized somewhat in the past for not saying  this was a terrorist act. The FBI director obviously felt compelled through his  investigation and research to say otherwise.    What do you make of just that?   
BILL DALY, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CONTROL RISKS: Well, certainly.   And I have had the pressure of meeting Director Comey. I can tell you, he is a  very forthright, direct person, who has -- who says that the FBI will  investigate things without -- without view of political standing of anyone or  anything.    So, I believe that he is speaking for both the FBI, as well as the Justice  Department. Don`t forget, he reports into Loretta Lynch, so he is basically  having his boss sit next to him, head of the Justice Department.   
CAVUTO: Yes. That`s what made it weird. Right? That`s what made it weird. And it raised this thought, well, maybe they`re trying to rein him in or not overdo the  terrorist angle or he might let something slip out, like radical Islam. I don`t  know, what it is unusual, is it not?   
DALY: Well, I mean, often you see FBI directors giving press conferences with attorney generals.   
CAVUTO: OK.  
DALY: When you look back to those days when Ashcroft was standing next to the FBI director as well. And so I don`t think it`s that unusual.   
CAVUTO: All right.  
DALY: I mean, speaking parts aside, I don`t think it`s unusual. And I also think that...   
CAVUTO: Well, by the way, we will have John Ashcroft on to address that.   But you`re quite right. It`s just the timing of this and given the reluctance to  use certain language, I just found it interesting. But that could be just me.    I want to switch gears a little bit to the ISIS connection. They`re ruling that  out as being exclusively -- not ruling it out, but they`re not jumping to the  conclusion that it`s an ISIS connection. But we do know as well that Tashfeen  Malik, the 27-year-old wife of Syed Farook, did in fact claim her allegiance to  ISIS via Facebook apparently on the day of those attacks.    What is -- as someone who investigates this stuff, how would you start piecing  that together, questioning that, building on that?   
DALY: Well, certainly, all the things we have been talking about here, all the electronic evidence that`s been gathered and that perhaps the suspects in this  case, the individuals thought they destroyed, will be very helpful in  determining exactly what, not only just their intent, as we know, beyond what  the shootings took place, but also what was driving them.    And, sometimes, Neil, I think we are seeing a convergence here. We are seeing a  convergence of -- perhaps we look it`s through the optic of whether it`s ISIS or  whether it`s Al Qaeda, but in some ways, people can be driven just by the  general ideology and whether -- whether we draw that together to be -- or  separated, I really think it doesn`t matter at this particular point.    I think it will matter when we get down to exactly were there any connections  that were made with people who belong to those organizations or who are known or  suspected to be part of them?    So I think from the standpoint of her making the pronouncement, of which we now  -- at least it`s been assaulted -- was done just moments before the shootings,  it certainly didn`t give authorities time to react to that or to kind of track  her, because it was done contemporaneous with the incident.   
CAVUTO: Well, that -- yes, that`s what the Facebook executive is saying.   Bill Daly, thank you very much, my friend.    I appreciate it.   
DALY: Very welcome.  
CAVUTO: All right.  
