  
KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: This is a Fox News alert. Hello, everyone. I'm Kimberly Guilfoyle and welcome to The Five. We're awaiting a news  conference in Los Angeles from the family of Syed Farook, the male suspect in  the San Bernardino attack. We're going to bring that to you as soon as it  begins. However, while we wait, the government is finally saying this.       
DAVID BOWDICH, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE OF FBI'S L.A. OFFICE: As of today, based on the information and the facts as we know them, we are now investigating  these horrific acts as an act of terrorism.       
GUILFOYLE: That announcement was followed by an update from FBI director James Comey.       
JAMES COMEY, DIRECTOR OF FBI: So far, we have no indication that these killers are part of an organized larger group or form part of a cell. There's no  indication that they are part of a network. There is nothing in our holdings  about these two killers. There were no contacts between either of the killers  and subjects of our investigations. There were of such a significance that it  raised these killers up on to our radar screen. We're obviously looking very  closely at those contacts, but I would not want you to over-index on that just  yet.       
GUILFOYLE: Well, it was terror. And that makes Wednesday's shooting in San Bernardino the deadliest terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11. We have also  learned that the female suspect, Tashfeen Malik, had pledged her allegiance to  ISIS via Facebook, just as the deadly attack began. And we've gotten a look  inside the home of the married terrorists where you can you see there are  tapestries with Arabic writing hung on the walls with copies of the Koran. Let's  go now to Fox's Adam Housley, outside the home in Redlands, California with the  very latest. Adam?   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Kimberly, as we've been talking about for the last couple of days, investigators who are on the ground  knew from very long, they felt it was a terrorist incident. We know they were  getting pressures from above them to be very delicate about that. And then we  were tipped off last evening that this press conference would happen today. That  it would not come from Washington, but it come from the assistant director here  on the ground, and he would indeed call this a terrorist incident.    Again, not much of a surprise to those who've been here for the last couple of  days, because it's been pointing in that direction from very early on. They told  us that. What was interesting to us is the fact that he said that there is no  connection so far to anybody on an international level when it came to the  terrorist types of groups. I'll tell you that the -- those investigating this,  obviously have, are looking down that path. They say they believe that others  were involved in this. They won't say whether that's domestically or  internationally. They do also believe that somebody else helped fund this. As  one said to me, there's no way this couple could have afforded all this stuff.  And that has them believing that.    But the wife is still a bit of a mystery. I have learned that her father, a  Pakistani descent had been living recently in Saudi Arabia. He was -- I'm told a  postal worker of some sort in Pakistan, but in Saudi Arabia, he was living under  quote, "comfortable circumstances."   
GUILFOYLE: OK. So does anybody have a follow-up question for him based on that? And again, you're taking a live look there at the presser, where we're expecting  the attorney of the family to come forward to speak, David Chesley. So we'll see  what he has to say when we get there, but Dana?   
DANA PERINO, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Well, there might not be a good answer to this, but I'm just curious, Adam, maybe you know the answer. Why do we not have  a photograph or a picture of the wife?   
GUILFOYLE: Wife, yeah.  
HOUSLEY: Well, you know, we're trying to get that we-- we obviously handled this very delicately. Obviously, some people went in and went through that house in a  very questionable way, once it was opened up. I can tell you that the FBI has  told me, not only here locally, but nationally, that they got everything they  needed to get out of that house. They went through it inch by inch. And this is  kind of a normal process where they hand it back to the owner and the owner can  do what they want to with it.    I can tell you there are pictures inside. One reason why they don't have a lot  of photos of this woman is because -- and they've been calling her a bit  mysterious from the beginning. I also know there are some photos out there that  the officials do have. I'm not sure why they haven't released them to us. We  haven't had a chance to get a comment on that yet. It is a bit of a mystery. I  do agree with him on that. And that has been has hampered the investigation a  little bit in the sense they don't have the same kind of trail that they have on  him and his family, obviously.   
PERINO: All right.  
ERIC BOLLING, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Hey, Adam, it's Bolling. The money trail is very interesting to me. I think you had reported at some point today that the  money trail led outside the United States. Would you comment on that? And also  James Comey today, made a comment that really struck me, stood out. He said a  lot of the evidence doesn't make sense. Any idea what he means by that?   
HOUSLEY: Yes. Well, part of the problem they're having, Eric, is they -- and they still haven't ruled out al-Qaeda on this. It was a situation where they  have some al-Qaeda connections and then she pledged allegiance to ISIS. There  are a lot of those things are kind of theories that they're working on. And  because she's so mysterious in this whole back and forth between Pakistan and  Saudi Arabia with her, her father's connection, that's why they -- some things  don't make sense. I will tell you there's a reason why Loretta Lynch was  standing there. It was to insure that he didn't go too far. I got that not only  from Capitol Hill, but from here. And we knew that that was gonna happen an hour  and a half before the press conference even took place. As for the money trail,  those investigating this case.   
GUILFOYLE: OK.  
HOUSLEY: Believe that might.  
GUILFOYLE: Adam, I got it.  
HOUSLEY: Outside the country andthe family.  
GUILFOYLE: Yup. Thanks, Adam.      
MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, FAROOK FAMILY ATTORNEY: This is David Chesley, who represents the Farook family in this matter, M-O-H-A-M-M-A-D. Last name is  Abuershaid, A-B-U-E-R-S-H-A-I-D.   
DAVID CHESLEY, FAROOK FAMILY ATTORNEY: And I'm David Chesley, D-A-V-I-D C- H-E-S-L-E-Y.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:.  
CHESLEY: We don't represent the shooters, Syed Farook or Tashfeen Malik. We do represent the brother-in-law and the mother of Syed Farook, and also his  brothers and sisters.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who is the brother-in-law?  
ABUERSHAID: Farhan Khan.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you guys go more in the middle? There you go.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How many brothers and sisters are they?  
ABUERSHAID: There are two sisters and there's one brother, Raheel.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:.  
ABUERSHAID: Syed, yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Syed or Tashfeen?  
ABUERSHAID: Syed.  
CHESLEY: So essentially, the message that we want to give is that what we'd like to say on behalf of the families and the Muslim community in general is that,  just as late as 1:00 p.m. today, the FBI Chief James Comey came out and said  that there was no sign that the alleged shooters belonged to a larger  organization, like a larger organized terrorist group or terrorist cell. So I, I  mean they're trying to or they, they have come up with some things where they're  trying to say that they were inspired by some groups. But there hasn't been any  clear smoking gun evidence that they were part of any particular cell or any  group. They're pointing to things that they saw on Facebook, under different  account names in the case of Tashfeen Malik. She supposedly had a Facebook  account set up under a different name that they say visited some, some group  that may have been, had ties to, you know, to more, you know.       
ABUERSHAID: More information keeps coming out. We're going to be able to identify which facts are accurate and which facts are not. And that is the whole  point of us meeting with the FBI. We've been in open communication with the  agents of the FBI. We've been at their offices in riverside, we were there for  about four hours yesterday, and we'll be finishing up on Monday, hopefully with  some of the other family members. As more facts come out about the types of  relationships that each individual family member had, we're going to be relating  that to you guys as well.   
CHESLEY: Yeah.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What can you say right now? What do you know about ?   
CHESLEY: What we can say from our four-hour interview or the investigation that took place with the FBI yesterday is that none of the family members had any  idea that this was going to take place. They were totally shocked. That is  Raheel, Saira and Eba, that is the brother and sisters of the alleged shooter  had no idea, to the point where when they got word that there was an incident  that had taken place, they were worried about the health and safety of Syed and  Tashfeen, because they had so -- it was just -- there's never been any evidence  that either of the two alleged shooters were aggressive, had extremist views.  They were totally shocked that this could take place, as shocked as anybody else  was.   
ABUERSHAID: And the family members knew Tashfeen, a sister-in-law. That's what then you are asked. They had a basic relationship with her. It wasn't overly  close, but it wasn't too distant. So the information that we have right now was  shocking and surprising. The family was found out the information that actually  came out. There's no official, there's no official discrimination of what the  reason was when we actually were discussing everything with the FBI yesterday.  And they're still going through their facts and their diligence as we are as  well.   
CHESLEY: If there's anything remarkable about the investigation that took place yesterday, it is that no ties could really be established to the point of  frustration on the part of the FBI. I mean you know if there's, if the most  evidence there is to any affiliation is a Facebook account under another  person's name, that supposedly just visited some site, then that's, then that's  hardly anything at all. And throughout the whole process of the investigation  yesterday, it got to the point where the FBI actually said look, let us explain  ourselves. We're trying to find evidence or information that could cause us to  believe that that the -- that Syed Farook was in some way affiliated with this  incident. Like something inspired him to be involved in this incident. And --  but the problem we're having is that we're not finding any evidence of any  behavior that would be -- that would show us that this would be the alleged  shooter. And, so, you know, why is that happening? And we were -- and we're all  like, well, we don't have any explanation for you, other than that there is no  evidence. None of the family knew of him as being extreme or aggressive or  having kind -- any extreme religious views.   
ABUERSHAID: And I think what the media should also be cautious about is just because he had a religion that he was Muslim. It had nothing to do with these  acts. Islam does not agreeing, does not support any type of actions that occur  like this. It does not support killing, it does not support murder of innocent  individuals, and the family would never support anything like this. And they're  giving their hearts and their prayers and everything else they can do to assist  the victims that lost their lives that day as well.       
CHESLEY: Well, see.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:.  
ABUERSHAID: The FBI actually hasn't made.      
ABUERSHAID: The media is leading with just assuming that this is a terrorist situation.    The point that the FBI is making is there's an investigation into this as a  possible terrorist act.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But the FBI is making that there has investigation with this and causing a terrorist attack.   
ABUERSHAID: I think every investigation the FBI does when it's involving a Muslim, will involve some type of terrorist investigation.       
ABUERSHAID: I guess.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're just relaying the information that they're.  
ABUERSHAID: We're not.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you think the motive is then for the shooting?  
CHESLEY: I mean there's, there was, there was information about the fact that his co-workers kind of made fun of him for example, and his beard. He was a very  isolated.   
ABUERSHAID: Renewed.  
CHESLEY: Introverted individual with really no friends that we could identify, like maybe one friend or no friends. And so, I guess what we would say is that  when an incident happens like this, when a Christian goes to shoot up a Planned  Parenthood or an extreme catholic goes and bombs an abortion clinic, all the  headlines don't say, extremist radical Christian Catholic. Christian catholic,  Christian catholic. Just like right now, every headline is saying Muslim, and  attaching Muslim to it, I think there's a tendency to take a cookie-cutter  version or a paradigm of a terrorist type event and superimpose it on a  situation just because that person is a Muslim belief or Muslim Tradition. And I  don't think we should jump to too many conclusions, in particular, because we  need to protect the Muslim community. And right now we're seeing a lot of  infringements on upon, upon rights that are important to all of us. By this I  mean we're talking about political candidates that could very likely be our next  president who are saying things like we should register all Muslims, and that  mosques should be investigated and looked into. Or that the families of  terrorists should be killed without due process. Or the latest thing that was  said was that it was known that it was gonna -- that it was a terrorist act that  was committed, simply because the person had an Islamic last name. And I think  any of us sitting here could say look, if somebody said that they knew a heinous  criminal act had been committed due to religion, just because it was a person of  a certain last name, and, let's say it was committed, it was alleged to be  committed on behalf of Christians, and you had a Christian last name. Or as  alleged to be committed on behalf of Jews and you had a Jewish last name. And  you're faith was constantly being attacked. I mean, there is -- I have so many  Muslim friends and so many people that I work with that are Muslim, and no one,  every Muslim community around the world has been in a state of remorse and  condemnation of these acts. No one supports it. Just as I think no Christian or  catholic would say, oh yeah, that's a good catholic that bombed that, that  abortion clinic or shot up that Planned Parenthood. But it's not even. We can't  even use that example. Because as of yet, like the FBI Chief James Comey said,  "There has been no evidence that they've found yet." This is his words in the  L.A. Times, as of 1:00 p.m. today. That they are linked to a larger organized  terrorist group or terrorist cell. All of there is and this is much to the  frustration I think of the FBI and everyone because we all want, we all want an  answer. We all are angry. We're all frustrated. We're all sad. We want justice.  But unfortunately, some things in life aren't as clear cut as that. And all  there is thus far is some nebulous thing that somebody looked at something on  Facebook. I mean, anyone of us may have looked at something on Facebook. It  doesn't mean we believe in it. I've checked out a Britney Spears post and I hate  Britney Spears music. It doesn't mean that you condone whatever you look at or  read or you fully believe and you're acting on behalf of whatever you look at or  read.    So we just have to be protective of religious freedom in our country, of our  Fourth Amendment rights. You know the -- just recently, the landlords let  journalists into the apartment of Syed Farook.       
ABUERSHAID: You know there's media outletwho they are taking pictures, people who were not, you know, either one of the suspects. They're  invading their personal space. They're sending some inappropriate pictures as  well. And I think this is the whole point of the FBI's investigations. It could  determine what level and what actually caused this. You know, as David says L.A.  Times has reported what James Comey has said, and we're just waiting to get more  information as well. I mean.       
ABUERSHAID: What do you mean by favorable attitudes?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, that he supposed to express sympathy towards ISIS. What you think will make of that?   
CHESLEY: What evidence is there of that, I would ask? You know, what are you pointing to? In what ways did they express sympathy?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The exact quote is, "The investigation so far is developing indications radicalizations by the killers and potential inspirations by foreign  terrorist organizations. He didn't say that there just indications in part of a  global cell or bigger cell." These are his words, I mean.   
CHESLEY: He's trying to say it was inspired by. But what I've read so far, I mean, we're all learning because the investigation is ongoing. We're the  attorneys for the family, not the investigators, so none of us have all the  information right now. But from what I've read, all I've seen is that somebody  looked at something on Facebook. There was another thing -- there was another  article I read that said that the FBI had investigated people, who Syed Farook  allegedly spoke to. But even those people that the FBI had investigated, nothing  came up for any of those people. And this is the danger we're getting into. I  mean.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But -- are you saying that you do not believe that there will be any connection to a foreign terror organization?   
ABUERSHAID: I think what we're saying is that we still have to wait for the investigation to be done before we make any type of determination.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, isn't that what the FBI is doing.  
ABUERSHAID: I don't think that what.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The FBI is saying?  
ABUERSHAID: I think that the reports that have been coming out now is that they link it to a terrorist group or some type of.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They're investigating.  
ABUERSHAID: They're investigating it. But until an investigation is done, there cannot be made any type of determination of -- if there was a group, if there  was a connection to anybody, and the moment you start doing that.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So are you saying that that we should not be pursuing the developments as they emerge, because the FBI is going through the process, and  it is the process.   
ABUERSHAID: Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And as they get information and they find out things, we're reporting them.   
ABUERSHAID: I think the idea of terrorist has been reported since this, this incident happened. So I think as the more information comes out, then the media  can start making the report, and as we get information.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Shouldn't we report this?  
ABUERSHAID: No. I'm saying that you guys shouldn't be making reports or statements concerning that there's a connection to a terrorist group until there  is factual link.       
CHESLEY: We're criminal defense attorneys, we look for actual evidence. So we can't jump to conclusions as what we believe.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We.  
CHESLEY: You know.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We listen to what the FBI says, because the FBI is gathering evidence.   
CHESLEY: Yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So we have to consider, we consider the FBI a credible source.   
CHESLEY: Right, yeah. I mean, I just think that what we're looking at is there -- like i said, when there's, when the FBI chief has literally come out and said  that they've found no link to a larger terrorist group or a terrorist cell, I  think people need to listen to that and consider that. And every headline until,  until there is absolute clear evidence, every headline doesn't have to say,  Muslim massacre or Muslim shooters because it's cause -- it's going to cause  intolerance and what we need right now is forgiveness, I think. Although this  is, there were Muslim people and Muslim families involved in this incident. And  as a Christian -- as a primarily Christian nation, I think we're a people of  mercy and forgiveness. And I think we need to avoid bigotry, stereotyping,  anything that we would be uncomfortable happening to us as Christians, we should  try to avoid doing that to Muslims as well.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If the family.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So primarily your leader.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Represent.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Some of the reports you've heard that link these acts to terrorism prematurely.   
ABUERSHAID: I don't think we're here to criticize, I think we're here.  
CHESLEY: We're here to protect the clients and they happen to be Muslims.  
ABUERSHAID: And also.  
CHESLEY: And the Muslim community. And also, to stand up for the victims and grieve the victims and to say we're remorseful for what took place. And the  Muslim community doesn't support or condemn what took place, no Muslim does  nationwide. Every single Muslim leaders come out and said this is not a Muslim  act. When someone goes crazy and commits an act that could totally be  work-related, it doesn't make a statement on behalf of an entire religion. We're  trying to protect people, and at the same time, we're still in mourning for both  the family and the victims and it was tragic, it's horrible. And we're trying to  heal the nation I think, as a whole.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did the family see any evidence of terrorism? Did they see any evidence of disgruntlement in the workplace of.?       
ABUERSHAID: There was a mention, where he got teased about his beard, but there's nothing else about that. He usually,any type of jokes that  people might have made about his facial hair as appearance.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's what you're saying, not what you read.  
ABUERSHAID: No, that's what the family said.  
CHESLEY: Yeah.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Conversations of people you represents that they mention that all, that the -- do these people ever discuss ISIS as just they general  conversation?   
CHESLEY: They never did. And that's, and that's, you know, that's why we're just -- we're being -- we're just, we're just making sure that we're not over-zealous  in our characterization of these events, one way or another, until, until very  -- until strong evidence comes out, showing that this was indeed affiliated with  something. And there -- I mean, I guess, I guess the frustration comes from we  sat through this four-hour interview with the FBI and.   
ABUERSHAID: And investigation has not done yet. But still have more interviews that we will be conducting with the FBI. And that's why I do caution on making  any type of judgment before everything is done.   
CHESLEY: But also, during that investigation I would say, we as attorneys, as criminal defense attorneys practicing for 10 years we're looking for evidence.  We're looking for things of substance to substantiate a link or a tie or  something, just as the FBI was. And when we sat there for four hours, being in  that interview with the family members, no one could identify any links or any  radical or extremist behavior, any attempt to be forceful or hostile or  aggressive in any way to force people to adhere to certain religious beliefs.  Any odd or strange or angry behavior before the time of the shooting, on behalf  of the alleged suspects, nothing was there. So it's not so much I'm siding with  someone way -- one way or the other, but I'm just objective -- being objective,  that's been my job all these years. And I'm just reporting to you what I've seen  during that investigation. There was, there was no evidence of anything. And  then what we're hearing now from the media, I'm just saying, from an objective  perspective has been very tenuous. So I just -- that's my feeling. I don't feel  like we ought to be over zealous in our characterization of the events until we  have additional evidence.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These family members who obviously. Brothers, sister and.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They suspect.  
ABUERSHAID: OK.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did they ever see any evidence of what's been described by police, bomb-making, large caches of ammunition? Anything to suggest.   
ABUERSHAID: No, the family members knew that Syed had two handguns. And they knew that he kept them locked up. So they are aware of that. And they also knew  he was licensed for it. The family members would have get- togethers on  occasion, but they wouldn't be going through the rest of the house and  inspecting the house. This was a brother that they had no idea, something like  this could happen.   
CHESLEY: There was never anything like -- there was never any evidence of any of these pipe bombs that were seen around. In addition, I would also just say -- I  mean, you know, it has been horrible. And you know, as Americans, we all want to  protect one another, make sure we're living in a safe and secure society. But,  you know, statements made about, for example the number of rounds that were  there. As a gun owner myself, I, myself probably have 4,000 or 5,000 rounds of  bullets that I keep at home. And the reason why you buy them in bulk is because  they're cheaper that way. And the government keeps on outlawing different,  different types of bullets and different types of guns at different times. And  then there will be shortages of bullets that will occur very commonly where  Homeland Security will order two million of a certain kind of bullet and you  can't get that bullet. It's not available for many months. So, especially if  you're target shooting, it's not at all uncommon to own 2,000, 3,000, 4,000  rounds to have with you, and you can get them at a cheap price, you stock up.    And you know, one of the main things I want to make sure happens is that not  only is anyone discriminated against as a result of this incident, but that we  continue to protect our freedom of religion and also our Second Amendment right  to bear arms. We can't have this announcement by the president every time  there's an incident like this that we need to ban all guns. Those rights are  important to us as Americans, we die for those rights. And they shouldn't be  denied.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did the family have anything to say about Tashfeen's education, to know the background of her education?   
ABUERSHAID: All we know about Tashfeen's education is that she grew up in Pakistan at about the age of 18 to 21 years of age, she moved over to Saudi  Arabia. She was educated. But there was nothing to show that -- I've read some  reports that she was a P.T. or a pharmacist.       
ABUERSHAID: There's nothing from the family other than education.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's not a pharmacist?  
ABUERSHAID: She is not a pharmacist over here. I mean, she look.      
ABUERSHAID: She was a housewife. She took care of the child. The mother lived with them at the house, so she was primarily a housewife. She had only come over  here in 2014.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How do you talk about at her at the moment?  
ABUERSHAID: I'm not really once.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I mean, from the family. What from, what the family had to say.   
ABUERSHAID: Well, she's only been a mother for about six months. So the family just knew her as, you know, she was caring. She was soft-spoken, this very basic  information what they've seen of her.   
CHESLEY: She was like a typical housewife.      
ABUERSHAID: She spoke English and she did speak Urdu as well, but it was broken English.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But how she assimilating into the country, into the culture?   
ABUERSHAID: Well, she -- for the year that she was here, she was assimilating fine.   
CHESLEY: She did maintain certain traditions from what I understand, in terms of fasting and prayer five times a day. She chose not to drive voluntarily. But  these are, these are all benign, you know, these are things that you know, many  Muslims do and it doesn't, it doesn't mean anything necessarily.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're just trying to get anything new about her, from a good source which is the family.   
CHESLEY: I think what, what we're seeing is like there's -- she was a very, very private person. She was -- she kept herself pretty well isolated. She was pretty  conservative. And I think one of the dangers is that since everyone does know so  little is that she's easy to pin things to or stigmatize with. And she's been  the one that the media has done a lot of that to because there's no picture. And  so it's -- or there's not a lot of information about her, so I think we need to  card against that. But unfortunately, I wish I could answer the question better.  There's very, there is very little information we have about her, other than the  fact that she was a caring housewife and.   
ABUERSHAID: And one of the things I can tell you guys, I have discussed with the family about the housewife, is that they're very traditional. In a sense the  family would go over to the house, they wouldn't all be together in the room.  The women would sit with the women and the men would sit with the men. But that  is a very traditional way of acting. It wasn't anything that was different. So  the men did not interact with her. And the brothers did not actually ever see  her face. They've never seen her face because she did wear a burqa. So they just  knew her.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Totally covered.  
ABUERSHAID: Yes, she was totally covered. So they just knew her as Syed's wife.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But did she speak English?  
ABUERSHAID: She did speak broken English. But her main language was Urdu.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Looking back at all these obviously, would planning to get whatever they were wearing, that sort of thing. Was there any  picture -- the family, are they looking back now, you know, she remain hidden,  you knowthat sort of now that they sent, now we realize there was  something wrong.   
ABUERSHAID: No, the family wasthey thought Syed's hobbies and which they still love -- they still where was building cars. You know this was his  thing. He likes to go in his garage. He likes to work on things. They never used  to invade his personal space. That was his man cave of sorts. He used to go into  the garage and work on things. He used to build shoe racks for his sister,  . So the family was taken by shocked. You know, they're very  emotional. And this is something that took them and just hit them as hard as  anybody else.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did the family ever go in the garage?  
ABUERSHAID: The family would just go in there just to see some of the things that he might be working on like his car. One of the brothers even explained  that he would not go in there, because when he was just going in there just be  for play dates. His daughter.       
ABUERSHAID: His daughter will be playing together, but that will be it.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They never noticed there are plenty of guns?  
ABUERSHAID: Well, they were aware of the guns that were at the house, but they were also aware that the guns were locked up in a case.   
CHESLEY: I mean, when we talk about guns, we're talking about like, from what I understand, there was two .9 millimeters and then there was two rifles. But that  was what we know, that was for target shooting before then. But there was  definitely never evidence of any of the other things.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But you characterize the level of Syed's mechanical ability. He had this hobby. But I'm sort of.   
ABUERSHAID: It wasn't something that he had gone and got in a formal education, but it was something that he had picked up by watching his father, reading  books. He read books about, you know cars, mechanics, it was mostly car books  that he was reading and he was learning as he went along.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You said that he had been made fun of.  
ABUERSHAID: Teased.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Teased by, about on his beard. Is that something that was talked about a lot? In other words, thequite he talks about that.  Did he say, you know, there was a guy at work, he was harassing me or...   
ABUERSHAID: I think it was just a general conversation that he had with the family when he explained that, "Oh, somebody just made fun of my beard."   
CHESLEY: But that's part of the concern, I think, is that we can't lead some intolerance to lead to further intolerance or in addition, there's times when  these things happen in all sects of American culture where someone is  disgruntled or gets made fun of or is uncomfortable or is an anti-social person.  And they lash out, and they do bizarre things like in Columbine or wherever, you  know, in Colorado recently. It's -- it's hard to attribute just to -- just to  the religion of Islam or Muslim people.    And all Muslims, like I said, are condemning this act. And -- and we're all  praying on behalf of the victims, and we all feel terrible about what happened.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: First of all, I'll just say, if this was a workplace type of shooting. There's always some sort of sign leading up to it. You're saying the  family did not see any sign whatsoever. Asidefrom his beard.   
ABUERSHAID: The family just knew that he was made fun of the beard. There wasn't anything else. He had just told the family, "Someone made fun of my beard."    You know, and his job, he had to keep his facial hair kind of trimmed up a  little more because of the type of job that he had and -- in the county. So  that's why he had told the family about this situation.    And mind you, he was a pretty private person. So for him to share some  information, you know, that's why the family had conveyed that to us, what  actually happened.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's some conflicting information out there about how the couple met. Do you have any idea about their personal history?   
ABUERSHAID: Yes. The couple met through an online dating website. It was actually a marriage website. They had met. They had interests that, you know,  they matched up.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Was it a Muslim website? Or...  
ABUERSHAID: We don't actually know what kind of website. We were actually trying to find out more information about the website with the FBI, as well.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you know what year it was?  
ABUERSHAID: It was about 2013.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So then how do you know about it?  
ABUERSHAID: The family talked about this. As well as the FBI.  
CHESLEY: It's in the investigation.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:Do you know when they met in person? The met online sometime in 2013.   
ABUERSHAID: They probably met in about 2013, and they ended up getting married closer to the 2014 time period.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did they meet in person at any time before that? Or would that have been the first time they -- they met?   
ABUERSHAID: He had went out there for a Hajj. And then they went ahead and they met, and they got married a short time after that.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So he went there for the Hajj and came back the second time and...   
ABUERSHAID: That is our understanding.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did he meet with her personally when he went for the Hajj?  
ABUERSHAID: At that time I think he might have met with the family. That's what we understand from the family members.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There have been unsubstantiated reports that the wife could have been radicalized and somehow involved inunsubstantiated,  I know. But I'm wondering if any of the family members saw anything to suggest  that she perhaps was more dominant than a submissive Muslim woman might be.   
ABUERSHAID: She was very soft-spoken. From the conversations that we've had with the family members, they conveyed she was a very soft-spoken individual. The  women were the ones who were able to communicate with her. Syed did not want  anybody else to talk to her because of the tradition that he was focusing on. So  they said she was very soft-spoken; she was nice. And mind you, they only knew  her about a year and a half or so.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you know about her family?  
ABUERSHAID: Nothing.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Absolutely nothing at all?  
ABUERSHAID: Nothing. They live in Saudi Arabia. That's all we know.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are they concerned for their safety, the family? Have they had any threats?   
ABUERSHAID: Her family members in Saudi?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, no. I mean the family here.  
ABUERSHAID: Oh, yes. They've gotten threats. It's been a consistent kind of thing. They've gotten phone calls. They've gotten people threatening them  through Facebook. They've deactivated everything.    The brother was misidentified. Rahil was misidentified as Syed. And that's a --  that's a really bad situation to be misidentified as an active shooter while he  was at work in L.A. County.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is her family Pakistani or Saudi?  
ABUERSHAID: Whose family?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Her family.  
ABUERSHAID: Pakistani. They're Pakistani.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And they moved to Saudi Arabia?  
CHESLEY: Yes. When she was 18 or 20, she -- she went to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to get married with Syed.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:when they dropped off the grandchild?  
ABUERSHAID: I think there's been some confusion about what they do with the grandchild. The mother lived with Syed and his wife. So they were going off to a  doctor's appointment, and they left the child with her. They didn't actually  drop off the child. Since the mother lived there, she was taking care of her  grandchild at that time.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did they try to change the dateof?  
ABUERSHAID: No. They -- they actually had the stomach flu earlier. So he had told the mother they were going to go to a doctor's appointment. And he was  going to take his wife to the doctor's appointment.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If the mother lived with them, she never noticed anything going on in the garage or anything at all?   
CHESLEY: I guess what I would say is that this is just so -- this is just the stereotypical situation of what takes place every time there is an event like  this. Most of the time no one knows that much about the shooter, and the same  thing was here -- was the case here.    The mother stayed to herself. I think she stayed upstairs. And so she would have  been separate and not really known much about what was taking place in the rest  of the house.    And everyone is always surprised by these incidents. And the same thing is true  here. Everyone was in shock.    There was a tendency to look for a network, a religious affiliation, an imam, an  extremist group, friends. Lists of -- lists of, you know, people that went to  the wedding. Anything that could be there to find some type of a terrorist  network. And the FBI was doing their job. We're all angry; we all want answers;  we all want security; we all want to be protected.    But nothing came up, and that is what is so shocking about all this. And I guess  I just feel the need to emphasize that so much. Because we just have a tendency  to characterize it in that way. And unfortunately it was just - - it was really  bizarre to sit through the interviews for four hours and not -- and not find or  see anything. But that's exactly what happened. There was nothing linking this  to religion or terrorist-related activities.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... investigation, not necessarily security agents.  
CHESLEY: But they're the FBI, and they're damn good at getting this information. They asked everything they could. They had the mother under pressure for -- with  seven hours or so. They -- they basically took her into custody. And at one  point they had the mother in custody. And they said, "We're not letting your  mother go." They said this to Saira, the sister of Syed. "We're not going to let  your mother go until you and your brother and your sister Ebacome in for  questioning."    And I get the feeling that that was a really traumatic experience, because her  son had just died. And not to mention she was totally distraught over how that  happened and the victims. She's been crying all of these past couple days. She  hates what happened. She -- she's very mournful about -- over the victims.    But I guess what I'm saying is, they're not new to this game. I mean, one of the  FBI investigators we sat down with clearly looked like he would be a plant in a  mosque. He had a beard. He looked like he just walked right out of Pakistan or  Saudi Arabia. And these are very that shrewd, you know, smart individuals. And  if there was any information there, they would have gotten it or found it. I  mean, the entire world is digging for information. And the most we've gotten so  far is somebody looked at something on Facebook.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, that's all they're telling you.  
CHESLEY: That's all we got so far. So far.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about the information that there was mediathat they destroyed?   
CHESLEY: Yes, well, all we know -- what we know is that the sister, Eba, went back to pick up the mother. And she -- when she went back, the computers in  the house were unplugged, she had said. But I haven't -- I haven't read all  about this digital information. Yes. I mean, there's a lot of -- I don't go...   
ABUERSHAID: There's more information that we're going to be getting once we go back on Monday, to discuss the different media that they claim was destroyed, as  well. The family has been more than cooperative with giving up any of their  sources and multimedia that they might have to assist the FBI in the  investigation.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What does the family think happened? Do they have any theories?   
ABUERSHAID: The family is in complete shock. They have no idea whatsoever. This was their brother by blood, but they weren't too close to him. Everybody had  their families. Everybody had their own children. They had their own life. They  weren't as close as they were when they were 15, 16 years of age.    The family is in complete shock. They're very sad for all the victims. They have  two losses of their own, as well.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:Do you know anything about that?  
ABUERSHAID: That's an ongoing part of this investigation that we're finishing up with the FBI. So once we finish that, we'll give you guys more details about  that.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  
ABUERSHAID: We're not going to be able to discuss that either right now.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can you tell us where the baby is now, the child?  
CHESLEY: The child is in Child Protective Services from what we understand. And I guess they're -- we're not -- we've been trying to get the baby back. But we  -- it looks like we're probably not going to be able to get the baby out until  at least Monday.   
ABUERSHAID: There is a hearing set for the child. We've been in open communication with Child Protective Services to get this child released to one  of the family members. And the FBI has been willing to release it to one of the  family members.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you know which family member it's going to be, to raise this child?   
ABUERSHAID: It's most likely going to be, like, his older sister.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Which one?  
ABUERSHAID: His oldest sister.  
ABUERSHAID: Saira.  
CHESLEY: Saira.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So basically what you're saying today is, whatever motive there was for this is very, very hidden, even though there was a motive.     
CHESLEY: It's been -- it's been very hidden. As you can see from the statement of the FBI chief, you know, that there isn't any connection, and -- and I guess  we're all wanting justice. And we're all wanting to make sure we find out  anybody who may be affiliated with it so we'll be protected in the future.    But at the same time, I guess we've just been saying that we all need to be  protective and respectful of one another's religious freedoms and -- and due  process, freedom to due process and -- and so that's what I would say about  that.    The motive is -- there's -- the motive is very unclear. It could be -- it could  be a disgruntled worker.   
ABUERSHAID: At this point, the investigation is ongoing. It could be disgruntled employee. It could be information that's coming out about their connections to  different types of groups. We're still waiting. And until we make a  determination, until we finish up with the FBI on Monday and Tuesday, that's  when we're going to be able to really see what this is kind of hanging on.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So they.  
ABUERSHAID: We will be doing interviews with -- on Monday and Tuesday with the FBI.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you know more about -- you saidabout this pharmacist...   
ABUERSHAID: No, we didn't say that she was out of practice. We said that she was not a pharmacist.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did she have -- did she get a degree while in Saudi Arabia?  
ABUERSHAID: No. There is no type of degree in Saudi Arabia that she had received.    OK. So we will be -- we'll be finishing this up. If you guys have any more  questions on Monday, we'll finish up with -- on Monday, Tuesday with the FBI.   
CHESLEY: Thank you very much, guys.  
GUILFOYLE: OK. And that just concluded -- well, let's say this, a most interesting press conference. I hope those attorneys weren't being paid. Because  that was the family attorneys for the Farook family.    And what you saw there was really a big focus on perhaps this could have been  domestic or workplace violence. A lot of focus on the two terrorists. And it is,  in fact, a terror investigation. And the reports came out by the FBI that they  are calling this an act of terror against those individuals. And this is, in  fact, the single largest, greatest terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11.    We heard a lot of different things during that conference. Perhaps also  suggesting that the FBI was confused, that they didn't really understand exactly  what was going on here; that they had the grandmother, essentially, in custody  for seven hours, asking her questions. We learned that the grandmother was, in  fact, in the home, was watching the daughter and living in that home, they said  primarily upstairs. And we also know from the report that this was essentially  an IED factory, that you had a large number of pipe bombs, bomb-making materials  in that residence.    As a former prosecutor, I'll tell you, you certainly want to ask someone who was  an eyewitness, potentially percipient to those acts going on in the home, a lot  of questions about what she knew, what she observed and who was coming in and  out of the home.    We're going to take it around the table. We've got some thoughts and reflections  on this -- Greg.   
GUTFELD: I was absolutely amazed. They could go on tour as a comedy troupe. One thing, when they said, like, nobody noticed the pipe bombs. You mean to tell me  people who make pipe bombs, they don't leave them out in the open? You know, you  just walk in and there's a pipe bomb, and they go, "Oh, I'm sorry. That's just a  clock for school." That is just amazing to me.    They also kept stressing that there may not be ties to a greater terrorist  organization. That almost argues against their clients, because they are  conflating terrorism with the Muslim community. Whenever they kept talking about  these people, these terrorists, they kept saying, "Oh, you don't want to -- you  know, you don't want to attack the Islamic community." Nobody is. But by them --  by them constantly bringing that up, they are conflating the terrorists with the  Islamic community.    And that is the ultimate crime of Islamophobia. They were walking cartoons. They  could work at the Department Justice.   
GUILFOYLE: OK. Well, some of the rhetoric coming out of there was mirroring what we've been hearing from the White House and the DOJ. But this is an ongoing  investigation, and they're going to try to establish and see if there's any  links, Dana, to other terror groups, other cells; if there's other individuals.  We've heard already that the FBI feels that there was people that were perhaps  working with them or closely associated.    We do know that the husband, Mr. Farook, had had ties with people who were on  investigation lists, that they were following that, and at one point, those  investigations were closed. All of that is very relevant.    But you heard a lot of language about blaming, almost, the victims here, talking  about the beard, talking about workplace violence. We're not sure if that's what  it is. Well, it's already been designated that it wasn't that.    And by the way, these are the same co-workers, that they murdered in cold blood,  that they accepted a baby shower from months earlier.   
PERINO: Well, from a P.R. standpoint, I think that -- I can understand when a family has an attorney, and that they want to try to, at least, be in the news  story and to provide some sort of information. So typically, what you would do  is you would have a written statement that you go out and you read on camera.  You maybe take one or two questions and get off the stage. Because as I said,  they're going to have additional follow-up questions from the FBI, as they  should.    They almost seemed surprised and offended that they were even being subjected to  any sort of questioning. When you -- and they gave -- every once in a while, he  would sort of remember to say, "Oh right and we're -- we feel mournful for the  victims." But to me I think that that was a pretty sad showing.    But it was actually very interesting in another way, which is to look into the  mindset of the community and how they are approaching this. And this is one of  the problems, that if you don't define radical Islam for what it is, then you  get this kind of mush.   
GUILFOYLE: Yes. And there's no -- there's no act or incident -- they tried to talk about this beard over and over again.   
GUTFELD: Who pushed the beard?  
GUILFOYLE: Who pushed the beard? Who pushed the video? It was more like, just, the total distracting.   
GUTFELD: Like the -- blaming...  
GUILFOYLE: Like Benghazi, yes.  
GUTFELD: Like blaming Benghazi on a video now allows you to blame a massacre on making fun of a beard.   
GUILFOYLE: Yes. And Eric, you know...  
PERINO: Which hasn't even been proven.  
GUILFOYLE: Right. With this whole narrative really seeming to just say -- and then there was another report that they did earlier, where they talked about  that the female, Eric, weighed 90 pounds and wouldn't be able to actually hold  up a gun to shoot anybody. So complete dissociation with the facts.   
BOLLING: OK. So we're feverishly taking notes here. My head is exploding. There's so many things from that press conference that we could talk about. Let  me just try and nail a few of the ones that really stood out.    By the way, two despicable lawyers; pure propaganda. No information, just all  propaganda. They weren't defending anybody. All they were doing was trying to  push a narrative. Blame the beard, blame Islamophobia.    They blame law enforcement and the FBI for Islamophobia and racism. And when the  FBI went out of their way to make sure that they didn't call it terror in  advance until they were sure that they had that loophole closed. And then they  did.    Basically blaming the victims, as Kimberly pointed out. Blaming the beard.    The home had pipe bombs. The home was booby-trapped.   
PERINO: Right.  
BOLLING: They can't say that these people -- this is just a spontaneous reaction? There's nothing -- there's no evidence. The evidence proves everything  contrary to what they were saying.    But this is the most important thing in my mind, and I'll stop. Was that this is  not good for the moderate Muslim community.   
GUTFELD: Exactly.  
BOLLING: For the moderate Muslim community, to come out and hear these two lawyers blame everything but the two people who perpetrated the crime...   
GUTFELD: Exactly.  
BOLLING: ... that killed 14 people and who killed or hurt how many countless others, it's terrible. We've been asking the moderate Muslim community to step  up...   
PERINO: Right.  
BOLLING: ... and call that B.S. out for what it is. Murder and terror and things like this puts a bad, bad feeling and a bad taste in everyone's mouth...   
GUILFOYLE: Right.  
BOLLING: ... about whether or not the moderate Muslim community is willing to step up and talk.   
WILLIAMS: Let me get this straight. You want the lawyers -- and we don't -- are they lawyers for the family? That's my impression.   
PERINO: Yes.  
GUILFOYLE: Well, spoken...  
WILLIAMS: You want the lawyers for the family now to blame the family for what took place? I think their job, as they come out there, is to say, "Slow down,  everybody. Stop leaping to assumptions."    If you're their lawyer, Eric, you want somebody who will come out and say...   
BOLLING: They didn't do it?  
WILLIAMS: ... "Here is what is isolated"...  
GUTFELD: Juan, nobody jumped to conclusions. When it happened, everybody was blaming it on guns. They weren't blaming it on radical Muslims.   
WILLIAMS: Now -- now...  
GUTFELD: When the facts are out. The facts are out, we can blame radical Muslims.   
WILLIAMS: In fact, we're still searching for facts. I think that's their point. We're still searching to see exactly was there a cell? We don't know. Was there  some training? We don't know.    Eric has asked a very important question: where's the money come from to fund  this kind of activity? We don't know. But I think a lot of...   
GUILFOYLE: We know that they didn't have funds sufficient to buy all of this. That's a fact.   
WILLIAMS: Right. That's what I'm saying. That's why we're asking the question about the money.    But you don't want to get yourself into a conundrum of sorts where you're  saying, "Oh, yes, you know what? They're Muslim and there was this woman, who  just came from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia." And everybody is leaping to make  conclusions. So the lawyer's job...   
GUTFELD: That's not leaping.  
WILLIAMS: It was leaping.  
GUTFELD: That's a methodical look at research.  
WILLIAMS: Here's the thing that strikes me. I think the real danger here is what they're calling self-radicalization, that, oh, yes, I'm told that she somehow  pledges...   
GUILFOYLE: She pledge allegiance to ISIS and to al-Baghdadi.  
WILLIAMS: ... allegiance to al-Baghdadi. That's the last -- at the last moment.  
GUILFOYLE: That sounds ambiguous.  
WILLIAMS: Now, this is during the commission of the act.  
BOLLING: What are you suggesting, that they -- they weren't involved, also?  
WILLIAMS: No, no. I'm jumping into...  
BOLLING: An obvious hotbed of lies and despicable propaganda.  
WILLIAMS: No, no. I'm concerned.  
BOLLING: That's all this is. This is all propaganda. And why are you perpetrating this B.S.?   
WILLIAMS: This is what I'm concerned about -- you are wrong. You know, because you don't understand the job of a lawyer. This is America -- in America...   
BOLLING: Blame the victim...  
GUILFOYLE: They're terrorists.  
BOLLING: ... blame America? Blame America for 14 people dead?  
WILLIAMS: Let me tell you something, if I was representing you, I would introduce some element of doubt. But let me just say this...   
BOLLING: I didn't think they were doing that. But hold on.  
GUILFOYLE: Juan, do you understand the terrorists are dead, so these criminal defense attorneys aren't going to defend them in court. They were caught with  all the evidence.   
BOLLING: Did you hear them say -- did you hear them say that they would shoot -- or did you hear them say the reason why -- there may have been a reason why this  happened?   
GUTFELD: What did they do after Britney Spears? Where did that come from?  
PERINO: Right.  
GUTFELD: That's -- that's, like, they were talking about bullying, about beards, making fun of beards. And then the guy says, "I hate Britney Spears' music."  You, sir, are -- he's actually advocating terror against Britney Spears.   
WILLIAMS: OK. Here's my -- here's my big concern, on a serious note, because I'm a Britney Spears fan.   
GUTFELD: Yes.  
WILLIAMS: We have 71 people charged in the United States with ISIS activity since March of '14. We have -- they say there are 300 Americans in the U.S. who  are ISIS sympathizers and have been active online recruiters. OK. So if this is  the leading edge of something where you have self-radicalization, buddy, we're  in trouble. That's what I'm worried about. And that's what I think the lawyers  are talking about.   
GUILFOYLE: Oh, wow. OK, so Juan watched a different press conference. It's no problem. Things get confusing like that.    But Juan, you do understand this has been designated an act of terror.   
WILLIAMS: Yes.  
GUILFOYLE: You do understand that she pledged allegiance to ISIS and al- Baghdadi.   
WILLIAMS: Yes.  
GUILFOYLE: You're not confused about that. So now the only thing that remains is to determine the nexus and to see what the tentacles of the terror network, to  see if there was other people that were aiding and abetting, acting in concert  to help them facilitate this crime or, God forbid, to help plan another one.   
WILLIAMS: Right.  
GUILFOYLE: There's also sufficient evidence that they're working on developing to see if there was a secondary target or another incident.   
WILLIAMS: That's the big one. Right.  
GUILFOYLE: So we get that, right? It has nothing to do with, like, the beard.  
WILLIAMS: In fact, I'm very curious. I wanted to ask Adam Housley about this. The idea that that there was a second plot, that they were going to do some  additional terrorist act. But I -- we didn't get a chance.    But your point is well taken, Kimberly.   
GUILFOYLE: Right.  
WILLIAMS: They -- they're looking for further evidence to see exactly what...  
GUTFELD: They haven't found the smoking gun yet? There are smoking guns all over the scene.   
BOLLING: And pipe bombs and IEDs and...  
GUILFOYLE: AR-15s and, yes.  
BOLLING: ... booby-trapped apartments with babies and grandmothers in it.  
GUILFOYLE: Unbelievable. And they said, well, she was just, you know...  
GUTFELD: A quiet, conservative family.  
GUILFOYLE: ... your average quiet conservative housewife, with pipe bombs and jihad. And...   
BOLLING: Don't be so skeptic -- your being skeptical is basically Islamophobia.  
GUTFELD: We're being judgmental.  
BOLLING: Yes.  
GUILFOYLE: All right. Never a dull moment. More to come on "The Five," you know it. Just a moment. We'll be right back.   
GUILFOYLE: All right. Welcome back to "The Five." We're going to take it around the table for some final thoughts, reflections, because we just witnessed the  press conference by the Farook family's attorney. Mr. Chesley and another  individual -- Dana.   
PERINO: Well, I think there's two main things to look at this weekend. And as first and foremost, I think that we all owe the victims some reflection, right?  And to look at their stories and to mark their lives and to really think about  them and pray for their families.    But the second thing I would watch is the developing possible tension in  Washington, and hopefully, this does not turn into a partisan issue. And we have  -- as a nation, we need to come together to deal with the realization that they  are here, and we have to give intel and our police everything they need to try  to prevent and disrupt these attacks before they happen.   
GUILFOYLE: All right. Bolling.  
BOLLING: So I hope in the next few days, the Department of Justice, the FBI, the intel, everyone just ties up all these loose ends and just presents the  evidence. So that idiot lawyers like that can't waste any more of our time,  making conspiracy theories on why they possibly perpetrated this or it's our  fault or it's the infidels' fault. Get rid of that.    And secondly, again, I hope the moderate Muslim community, whoever represent  them. I don't think it's CAIR. I'm not sure if it is or not. But whoever it is,  comes forward and says, "We don't stand by what those two people just said right  there. That's not what we represent. What we represent is a peaceful Islam."    And certainly, blaming the victims and blaming America and blaming the infidels  and blaming everyone but themselves, except for the two that killed 14 people,  is not what they represent. Fix this. Fix this, moderate Muslims.   
WILLIAMS: You know, what I felt this whole week is I don't want to feed the fear. And I think there's a lot of fear right now, a lot of anxiety. And then  there's a lot of partisanship, as Dana was just talking about, where people say,  "So are we going to label this terrorism or do we label it workplace violence?  And if you label it that way, then you're really on the gun control argument,  and that's not what this is about. This is about the jihadist terrorist network  and fighting it."    And I'm thinking, you know what? We've got dead people. We've got dead  Americans, our brothers and sisters, and we're all in a moment where we have to  be clear in our thinking, rather than, I think, resort to finger- pointing,  blame-gaming and playing politics. Stop it.   
GUILFOYLE: All right. This was an act of terror against the United States of America, and the second largest act of terror against this country and innocent  Americans since September 11. Now is the time to do something.    Mr. President, where are you? We did not hear from you on this today. You should  be out front and center, talking about this and reassuring this country that we  are doing everything we can to combat radical Islamic terrorism in this country.  It's time to be courageous and show leadership -- Greg.   
GUTFELD: I think we need to develop a terror A.A., where people can go and admit that we have a terror problem without being called Islamophobic or intolerant.  They could be -- moderate Muslims could meet and go, "My name is whatever, and I  am -- I am scared to death of pointing out this evil."    And I think that would be one step.    The one thing, this has happened before. Remember liberals forfeited the fight  with communism, and that fight fell among the anti-communist right as the left  become anti-anti-communist. You're seeing this right now. Because of President  Obama and Hillary Clinton abdicating the right against the war on terror, that  is falling into the hands of conservatives. This is going to cost them an  election, because they are cowards. They have created a leadership gap, and the  only people that are going to fill it in are the people on the conservative  side, because they refuse to unify with the right when they should. They should  admit this is a big deal.   
GUILFOYLE: You're absolutely right. Maybe now is the time to say yes, ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country and for  your family. If you see something, say something, and arm yourselves in the  meantime.    That's it for us. "Special Report" is next. Have a great weekend, everyone.   
BOLLING: Well done.  
GUTFELD: Arm yourself.  
