  
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: He may be a former senator, but let`s just say he has juice, not the guy on the right there everyone seems to be talking about these days as  an alternative consensus candidate for president of the United States.    I`m talking about Scott Brown, who has been having these backyard barbecues  which is getting hard to do these days. It`s getting very, very cold. In New  Hampshire, it`s like eight degrees or something like that.    But, anyway, they -- they show up in throngs, when Brown is holding one of these  events. And he just held one for Marco Rubio.    The former Massachusetts senator with us right now.    Senator, good to have you.    How many showed up for this event?   
SCOTT BROWN, FORMER U.S. SENATOR: Over 500 showed up for the Marco...  
CAVUTO: Are you kidding?  
BROWN: Yes, it was unbelievable. We had it inside in a barn. And we started heating it around -- I was there around 10:00, put on the heaters, and, you  know, pulled -- brought in heat, I should say.    But Marco was over 500. And they were literally packed in like sardines. And I  will be honest with you. They loved him. He took the time, answered every  question thoroughly, thoughtfully, has a wide range of knowledge.    We talked about ISIS, talked about student debt, talked about getting kids into  vocational school, talked about obviously the debt and deficit, talked about  Israel. It was a wide range. And he -- Common Core. So, he was great.   
CAVUTO: All right.   Well, then you have already lied to me, Scott, because this was not a backyard  barbecue. You guys got all scaredy-cat because it got a little cold and you went  inside, didn`t you, didn`t you?       
BROWN: No, it was in someone`s back yard, so it still counts, OK?      
CAVUTO: Now, with that crowd, 500 or so, I think, you said at the outset, how does that rank with some of the others?   
BROWN: Yes, that`s number one.  
CAVUTO: Is that right?  
BROWN: Carly was -- Carly was about 425. That was number two, and then Jeb Bush about a little over 350.   
CAVUTO: Oh.  
BROWN: And then probably Kasich, which was about almost 300, then Christie.   So, and it`s interesting. That`s basically, I think, aside from Kasich, how kind  of the polling is going here in New Hampshire, with Christie really putting on  some steam because he got The Union Leader endorsement, which is a big deal.   
CAVUTO: Is it a big deal? Or is it as a big deal as it used to be? What do you think?       
BROWN: Hard to say, because with the advent of the Internet, you know, and social media sources, but Joe McQuaid still has a lot of juice and people,  especially a lot of the old-timers, they really pay attention to him.    And Christie has done almost 40 town halls, really investing, I think,  everything here to have a good showing and really be the top three.       
CAVUTO: Well, he definitely feels that he`s got the juice right now. I`m not calling it Scott Brown juice.   
BROWN: Right.  
CAVUTO: But when we heard the governor on another rival show this morning, he certainly sounded pretty proud of himself. This is from the governor this  morning.       
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What we have seen over the last seven years is somebody who thought, gee whiz, isn`t it great to be here?   
QUESTION: Does Marco have the experience to be president?  
CHRISTIE: Listen, he doesn`t have my experience.      
CAVUTO: What do you think of that? "He doesn`t have my experience."  
BROWN: Well, hey, listen, Christie obviously has the gubernatorial experience. He has the prosecutorial experience. He`s been tested. He`s run in a blue state  and done well and has battled. There`s no doubt about it. He`s a battler. You  know it. You know it.   
CAVUTO: Well, who do you hate? Of those who came to your house, who do you hate, or they might have stole stuff from your house or backyard? Who...   
BROWN: Yes, I don`t hate anybody, Neil.   I`ll tell you, every single one of them would make a better president --  president than Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders or O`Malley. That`s for darn  sure.   
CAVUTO: All right, but you know the rap. Did Donald Trump ever do one of these things with you?   
BROWN: We have been in communication with Donald. And we`re trying to -- as everything here, it`s the art of the deal. We`re negotiating.       
BROWN: And we will see who the better negotiator is. He has certain parameters, and I -- so do I. I try to treat everyone the same. Everyone gets the same  treatment, period.   
CAVUTO: Well, what do you mean parameters? Does he want chateaubriand, instead of white hots or what?       
CAVUTO: No. We...  
BROWN: He wants hamburgers and sausage vs. hot dogs. I`m kidding. I`m kidding.      
CAVUTO: All right, thank you, my friend. Very good.   I`ll tell you, you have got the juice, young man.   
BROWN: Thanks, Neil.  
CAVUTO: Scott Brown, the former senator of Massachusetts, took Ted Kennedy`s seat. I can never get over that, what a huge deal that was, how historic that  was. All right.   
