  
MEGYN KELLY, THE KELLY FILE HOST: Breaking tonight we are going to continue to monitor that press conference but at the moment we're expecting a different news  conference out of California during which we believe we will learn more from the  authorities about the suspects, a possible motive and clarification from the FBI  on whether an attack that left 14 people dead is or is not in fact the product  of terror.    Welcome to a live midnight edition of "The Kelly File" everyone. I'm Megyn  Kelly. First, we want to get you up to speed with events over the past few  hours. We want to be careful about what we report.    So here is what we know. Fox News has learned that had a man named Syed Farook  is being considered as a possible suspect in the shooting. We are also hearing  reports that another suspect has been named by law enforcement. Tayyeep Bin  Ardogan, a 28-year-old Qatari citizen. This is not confirmed by Fox News yet but  it is being attributed to the police in San Bernardino, California. We'll hear  more when they come to the microphones in moments.    Now, this comes just hours after law enforcement revealed that two suspects, a  man and a woman were killed in an earlier shootout with the cops. As of this  moment, it is unclear if the people killed are the same people who have been  named. The dead suspects were tracked down in a neighborhood not far from the  crime scene. Police say tips sent them to that neighborhood.    As they were setting up to watch a home, a vehicle was spotted leaving the  scene, an SUV. Look at this. A chase ensued part of which was caught on our  exclusive video here. When it was all over, the two suspects were dead. And a  third person was taken into custody.    Right now, it is unclear whether that third person is actually involved in this  crime. Meantime, the bomb squad was brought in to the home that police were  scouting out. Including a tactical robot, amid fears that the home could be  booby trapped. And we're hearing that they have now entered that home. Adam  Housley has the very latest live from San Bernardino. Adam?   
ADAM HOUSELY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Megyn, you know, you mentioned about the third suspect. We have been told by law enforcement in the  last hour they've dialed that individual back and believe the shooting that  killed 14 and injured so many others was done by two individuals that are still  on scene here, dead back behind me, about a quarter mile down the road.    We were moved out of course because of the threat of what might be inside of the  SUV. It's been quite a day and night here San Bernardino to put it lightly. In  fact, in the last half an hour, there was a third detonation or a third device  destroyed over at the original shooting location. So that means that there have  been basically devices or suspicious devices found in all three of the locations  you mentioned.    Let me give you a quick idea of what we're talking about. The initial shooting  took place from there to here where the shootout was, is only about a mile and a  half at the most and then the Redlands location about five miles on the other  side. So we're not talking about a very spread out area but still, three  distinct locations where investigations are continuing and intense  investigations.    It's dialed back a little bit here in this incident. They got in the SUV after  several hours and taking enough time and being very tedious because of, they  want us to preserve evidence but also the same time and secure the situation and  assure safety for themselves.    The same situation is happening over at the -- where the 14 people were murdered  and I was told about 25 minutes ago, I think it was 25, 30 minutes ago that they  finally made entry into the home in Redlands which they were anxious to get into  to see what they can find.    They talked to neighbors who felt that there was suspicious activity going on  late into the evening. As you know, Megyn, when we talked to you last, we've all  known these names for sometime. And the reason why we were being -- didn't get a  chance to tell you this -- but the reason we're being a bit careful was because  the problems law enforcement was having with one name in particular, Syed Farook  there are other names identified with that. And because there are multiple names  in some cases with people from this part of the world, you've got to make sure  to get it right.    And they wanted to make sure they had that right and they also wanted to make  sure on a couple of other instances about the possibility of work place  violence, that kind of thing. But as one investigator told me tonight the  problem they have with tieing it to work place violence, and they're not willing  to call it anything yet is that the fact that these people went back, they got  tactical gear, they got high powered weapons, they got at least one pipe bomb  according to my investigative source, and then they returned to do damage and  murder these people.    And as they said to me and several investigators has said to me, that is not  spontaneous. And that's where they're having a lot problems here. Also, you got  the delicate nature involved and you also have a situation that you know the  ultimate bosses in this are back in Washington. That has to be taken into  account.    So there's a lot of different pressures here, Megyn, with the number one  priority being safety and security to the community. I mean are there other  people tide out there? Is this a lone wolf type of an attack? Is this terrorism?  I mean there's a lot of question need to be answered with the number one  priority being securing evidence, securing the scenes, and securing the safety,  Megyn.   
KELLY: All right. Adam, so as of this moment then, they continue to investigate the inside of the house connected to one of the suspects. And what is the status  of the scene with the SUV because we still have the aerial of that which we're  looking at a short time ago.   
HOUSELY: Yeah, in fact, I'll step away. Kind of see of the distance that this area was full of cars earlier. In fact, we want to show that video again that we  obtained of the actual shootout. It really began not far from I'm standing. The  fact that the glass -- I would try to show you but it's probably 50 feet from  where I'm standing which where they blew up the back window.    Remember right by the parking side over here, that is where the shootout began,  and it carried on about a quarter mile down the street where it came to rest.  There are three different locations. The initial one by the parking sign, then,  they shot up a bit more about 100 yards away and 150 yards past that, it ended  and where bodies were left and where it took several hours to get in. I'm told  they got into the SUV maybe an hour or so ago. But as you can see there is still  a crime scene there. And there is still, as you mentioned Megyn, two other  locations being investigated at this hour.   
KELLY: Adam, we're going to come back to you. Stand by. Thanks for the great reporting tonight.   
HOUSELY: All right.  
KELLY: Joining me now, Michael Balboni, who's a former New York State Homeland Security director and senior fellow at Homeland Security Policy Institute.  Michael, can you think of a thing this can be other than terror given everything  we have learned over the past couple of hours?   
MICHAEL BALBONI, HOMELAND SECURITY POLICY INSTITUTE SENIOR FELLOW: Obviously, you got to let the investigation take you where it leads you. You can't presume  where you're going to be but there are many elements given the recency of the  Paris attacks, given the way they did it as Adam just said, they went back, they  got tactical gear, they got weapons, they went back and what it looks like right  now, people would say why would you attack a facility like this?    And what is key to this is that the point of terrorism is to terrorize. So if  there is an opportunity that they knew this facility, they knew there would be a  lot of people there, and perhaps that's what they did. They said this is an  opportunity to have a mass casualty event in a place nobody would expect. And  therefore to be able to spread the fear that they can reach anywhere in the  United States.   
KELLY: And how -- and if this is Islamic terrorism, and you've got Fareed Sahook'sfamily -- forgive me on the name -- you have his family coming out  and speaking directly through care there. You know, his brother-in-law  expressing his shock and his condolences to the victims. They're not saying it's  not this guy.    So if in fact it is what it appears to be, does this look to you like the lone  wolf type situations similar to what we saw with the Tsarnaevs in Boston  although they may have been influenced but not necessarily controlled by  radicals overseas?   
BALBONI: So what you don't see yet is this type of thing you had in Paris where you actually had cells that did preoperational surveillance. There is no  information yet. That may emerge but at this point in time. You don't have that.    So what you may have is an individual who is self-radicalized, inspired but not  instructed. But of course what you're going to be doing now is looking at all  the travel records. Where this individuals -- where did they go? Who did they  talk to? What type of websites did they visit? Did they learn how to make a  bomb, a pipe bomb? Now, what are the inputs they've had in order to prepare for  this. Remember, you notice that anyone -- in anybody you have to practice to be  able to pick up a weapon and go shoot someone. It's not something that comes  naturally to anybody.    So there must have been practice. Where did they do this? How did they get the  weapons? These are all going to be the questions that they're focusing on right  now.   
KELLY: And what do you make of the fact the police now, the FBI delayed it's presser. Now here we are just after midnight, Eastern Time. We'll continuing to  await the next update which is supposed to take place about an hour ago. What do  you think is going on here?   
BALBONI: I think what they're trying to do is they're trying to get all of the information they can to make sure that they're really accurate. You know, there  is a lot of pressure here obviously. Everybody wants to know what does this  mean? Is interest a threat to the community?    But at the same time, i's an active investigation. And you don't want to tip off  perhaps associates, affiliates of the group out there with information that  could empower them maybe to escape or plan something else. So it's kind of this  delicate fine line. And as you again, you know, better than anybody else that  when reports at an active scene like this it may not be accurate. You've got to  make sure that you've you have that accurate information.   
KELLY: Let me put this to you. If this home that they're in does in fact belong to one or both of the perpetrators involved in this crime it may be one thing  for folks to communicate under the radar and, you know, get away with it. But  with law enforcement in the house with access to devices which may potentially  be in there, might this be a treasure trove of information for them?   
BALBONI: Without a doubt. Obviously, you know, fingerprints can be picked up from various devices. The way that the devices.   
KELLY: But they went back there, Michael.  
BALBONI: Yeah.  
KELLY: The way it looks right now is the people who perpetrated this crime committed it and then went back.   
BALBONI: Yeah.  
KELLY: . went back to the home.  
BALBONI: Which means that they were really calm. I mean they had almost professional -- an attitude about this which again says that these folks are  really focused on the actions that they were doing. They coordinated with each  other. So this is -- to say that this was just a work place violence, that's  kind of a hard thing to imagine at this point in time that that's the motive.   
KELLY: I mean everyone is keeping an open mind but obviously as the evening goes on and we get more information.   
BALBONI: Yeah.  
KELLY: You know, it's starting to be clear. Michael, good to see you.  
BALBONI: Good to see you too.  
KELLY: Fox news producer Dan Gallo is at the scene in Redlands, California where police are investigating a home as I mentioned connected to the shooting. He  joins us now by phone. All right, Dan is that -- we've seen them explode or I  don't know what they've done. We've heard three explosions. Adam Housley was  expressing the idea earlier that that may not have been an explosion. It may  have been something on their sort of robot that just makes that sound. Here is  the video you took of the robot going in to the home. What's the latest there?   
DAN GALLO, FOX NEWS FIELD PRODUCER: We'll in the last few minutes we really started to see law enforcement clear out from in front of the house. I would say  I got here probably two and a half hours ago. And I would say the situation here  was a lot more tensed in fact they moved us back at one point. They said for our  own safety shortly after we saw the robot go in. Maybe 15 minutes we heard what  I thought sounded like a controlled detonation. That may or may not be the case.  I'm not an expert on this stuff.    There is ATF, FBI and a local police here. I talked to a local police officer  who really didn't have a lot of information on what they are looking for but he  did say well they weren't evacuating people in this area, he'd advise residents  to leave in this specific neighborhood.   
KELLY: Wow, is the robot out?  
GALLO: Yes. So in the last few minutes they actually took the robot out across the street and so that and what we really began to see here in the last 10, 15  minutes is law enforcement leaving this area so.   
KELLY: Have you seen them removing items from the house?  
GALLO: We haven't. But then again we're about -- I'd say three, 400 yards away. It starts. All we have pretty much is street lights. So I'm not going to say  they haven't but I haven't seen it.   
KELLY: Have you heard it all or seen the neighbors, Dan?  
GALLO: We spoke with one woman who spoke a little bit generally about the neighborhood but didn't offer a whole lot in the way of specifics about this  specific home or this specific resident of this home.   
KELLY: What she say about the neighborhood?  
GALLO: Frankly she said, she was a Donald Trump supporter and mentioned a lot of things about Muslims in this neighborhood. I don't know what to make of it. She  said she saw people wearing turbans and that sort of thing. I am just telling  you what she said. I don't know what to make of that.   
KELLY: And what kind of a neighborhood is it? Is it a middle class type of neighborhood or what, how would you describe it?   
GALLO: I'd say it's an apartment kind of community. I mean there's a lot of apartment that lie in the street here, you know, somebody who lives in the  apartment complexes. This is like an area that I would consider living in. So I  wouldn't -- I would say it's kind of middle class for people at are looking for  an apartment complex.   
KELLY: But this is a stand alone home where the suspect -- it's either his house or somebody related to him? Their house?   
GALLO: I was told by neighbors that this was actually a condo complex with two or three units in it. And I believe the police actually confirmed that.   
KELLY: What can you tell us about this report that one neighbor reportedly saw two to three Middle Eastern men in the garage, receiving packages, working late  into the evenings. Unconfirmed by Fox? All of which we have need to check in  that.   
GALLO: Yeah, that. I truly don't know anything about that. It could have been the same lady I spoke with and, you know, I don't know. That's hearsay for me.   
KELLY: She did not tell you that?  
GALLO: She did not mention it.  
KELLY: Dan, thank you.  
GALLO: Absolutely.  
KELLY: Joining me now with more is Mark Fuhrman, former LAPD homicide detective and a Fox News contributor. Mark, you know, so you -- the canvas gets a few  brush strokes on it over the course of the day and here we are, midnight, just  past on Thursday. And it's becoming more clear.   
MARK FUHRMAN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: It is becoming more clear and I think it's going in a direction that I think that certain people would not want it to go.  And I want to say something, we keep hearing people making in disclaimers it is  not yet terrorism. Why don't we just call it what we see so far or why don't  they state what they see?    They can't make it work place violence because they could already do that and  would be easy. Does either person is deceased that were the shooters? Do they  work there? Do they know any of the people that were in the conference room? Do  they work in the building? If they don't it's not workplace violence.    And I think this is the difficulty that they're trying to find a motive instead  of looking exactly what they have. They have all these evidence and it's all  pointing to possibly self radicalized terrorism, terrorism. It doesn't matter  how you put it. It is not a lone wolf attack. You have a conspiracy of two  people at least two people, that conspire, prepare, load up, killed people, have  explosive devices. They had a plan. And they executed it.   
KELLY: Yes this is been in the works.  
FUHRMAN: I don't know how much more terrorism?  
KELLY: . for some time, right. I mean this is not somebody who went home.  
FUHRMAN: Absolutely.  
KELLY: . like we saw in the Oklahoma Case with the man beheaded a woman and try to behead another he got ticked off, he went out, he grabbed the butcher knife.  He came back and he did the deed. These guys have been planning this for days or  weeks or perhaps longer.   
FUHRMAN: Absolutely. And Megyn, you're an attorney. You know that intent and premeditation can form in a matter of seconds. Just because somebody walks out  of a building and goes to the trunk of a car and takes a shotgun out and goes  back in. That's premeditation but it's certainly kind of a knee jerk reaction to  being enraged or angry.    This is something where somebody had to collect weapons, collect ammunition,  tactical vest. They have to get a mask for their face, gloves for their hands.  They had to make improvised explosives devices. This is not something you just  go home and pick up and then go back to a location. I think it's almost silly to  say that.   
KELLY: Here's the question I have for you. That the two people who have been killed, the suspects who have been killed are a man and a woman who were in that  SUV. The reports from the shooting scene where 14 people were murdered and 17  people were wounded. Were that two or three men they said were men were there  shooting.    And, you know, we've been talking a lot about female Jihadis over the past  couple of weeks since Paris, since that one woman was in the apartment that got  exploded in Paris and the days after that attack. And the rules we've been told  are that the women are allowed to participate in Jihad but they don't normally  -- they're not as aggressive normally unless it's in the home.    Anyway, the point, what I had to ask you Mark is what -- if it's two or three  men shooting up the facility and you've got a man and a woman dead tonight, why  would they be begging officers for a third suspect? Wouldn't there be reason to  believe there is another suspect? He's at large right now because none of the  reports were that somebody with the mask on their face sounded or appeared to be  a woman.    FUHRMAN Well, Megyn, law enforcement is telling us about 1/10 of what they know.  They're telling us what they think you are going to find out by talking to  witnesses or what they think you're going to see and put together. They're not  going to tell you what they know. They're working on leads. I suspect that  they're working on dozens of people that they have actually connected to these  two people as associates, friends, coworkers, people they knew in their host  country or their birth country or this country. Places they live before.    They're actually widening this net to try to include as many people as they can.  They're not telling us a small percentage of what they're doing. This is a huge  investigation and it's probably bigger -- much bigger than we see right now.   
KELLY: Just want to update you because we've been monitoring this CAIR press conference the Council in American Islamic Relations which in an extraordinary  move prevented the brother-in-law of the named suspect, Syed Farook. Who came  out and said he's devastated by this and didn't want to say much more but  apparently CAIR just said at that press conference that the suspect, Syed Farook  and his wife are both missing. They said they're missing and they have been  missing since this morning.    So the police have not yet confirmed officially that that's the pair who was  killed in the SUV but another bit of color to this story, Mark tonight.   
FURHMAN: Well, Megyn, let's fast forward a little bit. The male suspect is a United States citizen. He had to submit to a print card to actually become a  United State citizen. They took his prints. They have his prints. They know who  he is and they know who the body is. As far as the female, I wouldn't know  because they haven't identified her by name. But they know that. That's  something for sure. I saw the press conference that CAIR gave. They're  apologizing for his actions and they're connecting to the Islamic community  telling people not to blame them for the actions of this one man.    So, they already know it's terrorist related or at least it's Islamic radical  Jihadism related but somehow we're slow to actually say this, I guess we're  being delicate. We want -- we don't want to offend terrorists, we don't want to  offend ISIS. I don't know what it is but we have 14 dead people, they're the  American citizens and they have more rights than the two suspects that are  laying face down in an SUV in a pool of their own blood.   
KELLY: So sync we put. Mark, thank you.  
FUHRMAN: Thank you.  
KELLY: All right as I mentioned a moment ago and as Mark just noted, right before we begin the hour. The counsel on American Islamic relations of care had  a news conference complete with the brother-in-law of one of the dead suspects.  He told reporters he was there to express his condolences for the victims but  would not say much about the man now identified as one of the attackers. Here's  just a little of that.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When is the last time you spoke to Syed?  
FARHAN KHAN, SYED FAROOK'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: I mean, I spoke to about like a week ago with him. Yeah.   
UNIDENTIFED FEMALE: Are you saying you just spoke to him?  
KHAN: You know, there is no comment, I mean, investigation is going on, you would know what it is. I have no idea, I have no idea why would he do that. Why  would he do something like this? I have absolutely no idea, I'm in shock myself.  A normal person.       
KELLY: Brad Thor was a best selling author and former member of the Homeland Security Department's Analytic Reb Cell Unit. Brad, good to see you.   
BRAD THOR, FMR MEMBER, DHS ANALYTIC RED CELL UNIT: Good to see you ma'am.  
KELLY: And reportedly, The Daily Beast is reporting tonight that the suspect's father has also spoken out saying he was estranged from Syed Farook because he  and the mother divorced and apparently Syed was with the mother than he was with  the father. And the father described him as a very religious person.   
THOR: So I'm worried about this, Megyn. Doesn't that bother you that the father said he was an extremely religious person? But when a question was put directly  to his brother, his brother says, "I don't know"?   
KELLY: His brother-in-law.  
THOR: His brother-in-law. He talked to him a week ago, but come on, his brother-in-law doesn't know if his -- if this family member, even if his  in-laws, extremely religious? I have never seen CAIR jump into action this fast  before.   
KELLY: Neither have I.  
THOR: This is spin, this is damage control. And I'll tell you, that the American-Muslim community does not need a group like CAIR representing them.  This is like a pedophile sending Nambla out to speak for him. CAIR has a very  bad organization with a lot of bad ties to terrorism. These guys,  American-Muslims, the first thing they need to do with this country is cut ties  with CAIR.   
KELLY: They've been designated as a terrorist organization, I believe...  
THOR: The only thing in foundation trial.  
KELLY: Right. But they were unindicted co-conspirators in that trial.  
THOR: Co-conspirators, I'm sorry. You're right.  
KELLY: But they've been designated a terror organization, I think by the UAE. Hold o, we're getting breaking new from our own Adam Housely. Stand by, I want  to be right back to you, Brad. Adam, what do you know?   
HOUSELY: Yeah, Megyn, I've been told by a law enforcement sources that, you know, we've heard about originally at early on that there was a, some sort of  fight or disagreement. And then the suspect left the location and came back. I'm  now being told that they're working on a different premise, that -- with these  investigations going on, they're interviewing all of the witnesses and those who  were injured there. That they're going on the premise potentially that that  heat, there wasn't an argument. If there was any kind of disagreement it was  because he was there to case the location, to see if it was a soft enough  target. That's kind of where they're starting to go.    Again, this has to -- investigation is going to go on for sometime, but I think  that's a pretty significant development in the sense that as they get through  these interviews with the suspects they're starting to get a picture. And the  picture that, unfortunately, may be unfolding is that this individual went to  that location to see if it was a soft target to case the location and then came  back. Megyn.   
KELLY: Wait, so that this person didn't work there? I just clear, I apologize Adam, so this -- some folks are not here. So that he didn't work there?   
ADAM: No, no, no that -- I'm not saying that. No. I'm saying that he came, for whatever reason, he went into that location, the meeting or whatever it was, you  know, he been told several things, the job fare, I mean, whatever it was that he  would do was basically, he was casing the location. He went in to see if there  was security or if there was something, you know if he was going to be an easy  hit. That's one of the theories they're now working on.   
KELLY: Adam, thank you. I want to tell our viewers as well that we told you earlier, the L.A. Times was reporting that the San Bernardino Police had given  them second name. The L.A. Times have been -- that police have gone on the  record giving them a second name of a suspect and that now they are pulling that  report back saying that the San Bernardino Police are clarifying that second  name did not come from them. And that is not yet confirmed, that they believe  that may have been a hoax, they say. So we only know one name and it is, as I  mentioned Syed Farook. And that is the one that we heard the members of CAIR  speaking about moments ago.    Brad, so, he went there to case the operation. He did -- he was -- he did work  there and as I say -- as I said they're more permanent appears that he and his  wife, that's how it appears, were the people in the SUV. So if this is the case,  and these are the only two suspects we're looking at which is what the cops are  saying. That's what Adam reported at the top of the show that now they've  disregarded the thought of this third suspect. And they say these two who were  killed in the SUV are the ones who did it.    Then you had a -- you have a woman in there shooting up this work place along  with her, you know, but it looks like it maybe her husband, we haven't confirmed  it specifically.   
THOR: Yeah, you know one of the things that Mark Fuhrman brought up that I thought was very important is, you just don't pick up a rifle and start  shooting. This takes training. Where did they get this training? And what I want  to know is, who is driving and who was shooting in that shootout with the cops?  Because if it was the woman, that's going to tell you a lot about this operation  and the amount of training that went into it.   
KELLY: That's a good point. What we were told earlier was that you can see the one person, sort of, out of the SUV and that you can see another person slumped  back in the car. But we weren't given their positions in the car. Nonetheless, I  mean, how sophisticated do you expect they were? I mean, how difficult do you  think it's going to be for law enforcement to get to the bottom of how this was  planned? With whom it was planned? How long? And so on.   
THOR: Megyn, this is the thing. We always have this hindsight 20/20. How difficult was it to get box cutters on the airplanes on September 11th? It's  this simple targets, they go after these soft targets, we keep hearing soft  targets, soft target, soft target. OK. One of the things with Al- Qaeda, is  Al-Qaeda sympathizers, repeatedly get busted by the FBI because they go on the  internet, they try to have somebody help them build a bomb, all these kind of  stuff. We saw that with the Dave Matthew's concert, attempted bombing that we  got yield in Chicago.    Well, thank God it was an FBI agent online that this Al-Qaeda sympathizer link  up with. ISIS is telling people, think globally, taken this whole radical  Islamic caliphate ideology but act locally. So at San Bernardino...   
KELLY: They just said that, I mean, that was almost word for word with the directive was after Paris.   
THOR: Absolutely. There's a reason why they're pushing these people into these very heavily encrypted chat rooms with different applications so that the FBI  can't crack them, the CIA can't crack them and other allied intelligence  agencies can't get in to see what they're talking about. But this is what ISIS  wants. Because if they can do it in San Bernardino, they can do it in Cupertino,  do they can do in Naples, Florida, they can do it in Arlington Heights,  Illinois, it doesn't matter.    This is what terror is all about. And I'll tell you, I don't know what it's  going to take in this country. Are we going to need to see this happen in a  school, someplace else? Its soft targets, soft targets, soft target. That's what  these guys want and they're going to be successful unless we dial it up.   
KELLY: What -- but how? I mean, it's one thing to say that terrorist are making games over in Syria. We should bomb them more or we should send them more  special forces, it's quite another to say, how? How were they to be detected?  Specific, I'm not saying, it can be done, but how? More FBI agents? More  NSA-type programs? What is it?   
THOR: Well, I'll tell you. I read a great article and I believe with Charles Cook in a row, who wrote the article that said, you know what, American lives  are important. And maybe what we need to do in this country is to say, for 12  months we are suspending all visas of people from Muslim nations until we find  the people from those nations that have overstayed their visas here.    Now, is that zirconium, is it crazy, is it going to hurt Muslim business  people? Absolutely. But if you get a businessman in Jeddah or in Jordan that  looks at his radical nephew and say, "You know what I'm losing money. I can't  run my business in America because I've been frozen out, because it's you and  the idiots at your radical mosque.    Megyn, you and me, Mark Fuhrman, Ralph Peters, we cannot reform Islam. It could  only come from within the Islam and it can only come from us turning up the heat  on them to force them to reform. And that's the kind of stuff we need to be  looking at.   
KELLY: That is one tall order, Brad, you know, I mean, it's -- you want to find more immediate things that we can do. I mean, this guy is a U.S. citizen. He's a  U.S. citizen, he's not, you know, somebody who came in with Syrian. So the  question is, how would you detect this? I mean, I assume we already monitor some  of these radical Jihadi websites. And we have, with the FBI have the -- and we  have our eye on, you know, the traffic is all there.   
THOR: In all 50 states. There's investigations in all 50 states now for ISIS sympathizers. The problem is, you know, and again, we can bomb the heck out of  them and should be bombing them more and we should be sending in special forces,  but it's the ideology. Because we can bomb them, we're still going to get more  of them. You knocked down two, two more pop up on the way.    We have to combat the ideology and that's the one piece of this puzzle, this  multi prong approach that the United States is not doing. We are not looking at  our Muslim partners around the world saying, "Guys, you've got to change this."    This reform has.   
KELLY: We have said that. We have, president Obama has said that.  
THOR: He won't even say radical Islamic terrorism, Megyn. We are so politically correct that we will not look at the Muslim population around the world and say,  "Guys, this is your problem, OK? We are not going to let another American  citizen be killed by a Muslim jihadist. We're not going to do it. So, the  pressure's on you guys."    And I think, instead of you and me standing in longer lines at the airports and  having our civil liberties eroded by all the phone call metadata being pulled in  and all the kind of stuff. We should be focusing there.    Let's preserve civil liberties here while we put effort where it needs to be,  which is on Muslim countries. Force them to reform their religion. That  Christianity has gone through reformation. Judaism has gone through reformation.  Islam has not. It's the same religion it's always been.   
KELLY: You know, we have not yet had it confirmed by the FBI that this is terror. Still, so far officially, they're saying it's a possibility. And, but  now as we learn.   
THOR: This is a public relations disaster, Megyn, for the White House, for Barack Obama, he doesn't want owe call it that. So the FBI.   
KELLY: Well, they're trying to be careful as the night is unfolding. And the FBI's going to have another press or any moment now. And hopefully we'll get  some more clarity on it. They want to be careful. That's to be respected. But at  a minimum, Brad, we are seeing how vulnerable we are in the country. As you  mentioned, these soft targets.    And it underscores what we've heard from so many guests. Former FBI guys who  were saying, we need more resources if you want us to keep the country safe.   
THOR: Absolutely. The FBI is overworked. I'm surprised that we haven't seen more. There are incredible men and women at the FBI and they need help.   
KELLY: Yeah.  
THOR: And I will say something else Megyn.  
KELLY: Quick. Quick. Actually, I got to cut you off because I have 10 seconds, what a heart break. Great to see you Brad, thank you.   
BRAD: You too. Thank you.  
KELLY: A lot more when police come up to the microphones. Stay tuned.  
KELLY: Breaking tonight, we're still awaiting a news conference from law enforcement officials out of California where we hope to learn more about the  suspects here and what the motive was behind the shooting today that claimed the  lives of 14 Americans and injured another 17.    And Fox News is learning new details on a possible lead suspect in that San  Bernardino shooting. Chief intelligence correspondent, Catherine Herridge, joins  us live in Washington.    All right Catherine. So, let's start with what we know and what we don't know.  They they've confirmed to us so far as of this hour is, forget -- I guess it's  forget about the three suspects, now we've limited to just the two who are dead?   
CATHERINE HERRIDGE, CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: That's two suspects and the primary name that we have been working with for several hours is this Syed  Farook. It was first identified to us as a lead assailant, who is a U.S.  citizen. The original name we got was much longer, we were told at that time  that they did not get positive hits on the watch list.    They then began working with the shorter name, Syed Farook. And we were told  that's the name in play. A strong lead and a likely suspect in this shooting.   
KELLY: Did they say he was on a watch list?  
HERRIDGE: No. They said that they had a longer version of the name. It was Syed Farook and then two other names were attached to it. That was initially, sort of  pulls through the databases. And they did not come up with positive hits for  that sort of extended version of the name, Megyn.   
KELLY: OK, and no one has released the name of the woman. We don't know whether it is Syed's wife. There's an assumption to that effect given what CAIR just  said about Syed and his wife being missing.   
HERRIDGE: The brother-in-law, correct.  
KELLY: Right, since this morning.  
HERRIDGE: That's right. The other thing that's going on with this name, Syed Farook, one of our counter terrorism contacts has confirmed to us that they have  been tasked by federal law enforcement to basically do what is called an  electronic scrub on this name. That means that they're going back and doing data  aggregation.    So, they're looking at social media, Facebook, but specifically with an eye to  their network of contacts, and the messaging in the days leading up to the  attack. To understand who they were in touch with, and also, critically, that  frame of mind in the days leading up and associations with this, what appears to  be a target set, Megyn.   
KELLY: Catherine, what do you make of this? If this is a guy that worked for this, you know the county for this group, who's married. If this is Syed and his  wife, how unusual, to -- if this is radical jihad -- to have the wife come in  because now, they're saying it's just these two, to have the wife actually come  in and wear the mask and shoot a bunch of people?   
HERRIDGE: What's been extraordinary to me as this has really unfolded this evening, Megyn, is that there has been a real sense of -- I'm not sure, unease  is the right word. But people couldn't quite take what happened in California  and put it in what I would describe as sort of a neat box to understand what  they were looking at. There were several theories that were floating around  there.    Sort of the most-important developments, I think, we've seen this evening was  that last news conference with the assistant director of the FBI out in Los  Angeles saying that, there was new information that had caused them to make the  sort shift or tilt saying that terrorism was a possibility.    But this doesn't seem to fit sort of that paradigm that we have seen in the  past. But what we do know is that Syed Farook is considered a strong lead, a  possible suspect and that they're working very hard to understand his network.    Because at this point of the investigation, what we're not seeing is this effort  to really understand who his closest associates are. And I'm interested to see  in this news conference coming up. Is whether the FBI and sheriff's department  will be able to say to the viewers and people of California in that area,  whether they feel that this is now contained because that is really job number  one right now. Is it contained?   
KELLY: Right, and especially if they're saying, forget of that thing about the third suspect. And earlier they said, we saw him running away from the SUV.  We're questioning him. We're not saying he's a suspect. So if they're really  saying it came down to these two, there's got to be another investigation  underway. Because they're not given the amount of firepower they brought, the  amount of planning that went in to it.    And just the fears based on -- even if this isn't terror, Catherine. Based on  what we saw in Paris where there was another attempt underway. And just the  general fear that another shoe is going to drop.   
HERRIDGE: I mean, just to give you some context of the kind of pressure the FBI is under at this time. Just taking the shooting in California and putting it to  one side. We were able to confirm to one of our contacts that when the FBI  director James Comey said that they had dozens of cases with suspects under a  tight scrutiny, well that dozens of cases is in fact more than 48 that are  subject to what's called the special surveillance group or these mobile  surveillance teams.    This is 24/7 surveillance. It takes agents, local authorities, cops -- you're  talking about more than a dozen people assigned to an individual suspect. The  number is upward of 48. You can do the math to understand what that looks like.  And that is a separate from what we think has gone on in California. So that  gives you a sense of the aids of the stress and the testing of the system that  the FBI is under at this point.   
KELLY: Catherine Harris, thank you.  
HARRIS: You're welcome.  
KELLY: Tim Clemente is a former FBI Counter Terrorism agent, former FBI SWAT team leader and former U.S. Military advisor in Iraq. Tim, what do you see here?   
TIM CLEMENTE, FORMER FBI COUNTER TERRORISM AGENT: Megyn, it's hard not to see the obvious. Obviously the FBI hasn't come out and exclusively said that it is  terrorism. But I got a lean in that direction. I mean when all these cubes stack  up and it looks like a pyramid. You got to call it a pyramid.   
KELLY: Based on what? Based on what is it the name? I mean what is it?  
CLEMENTE: The name doesn't hurt. Obviously that points us in that direction, the fact that he's been said or described by a family member that devout Muslim. The  fact that he's a 20 year old male right in the age group that most Islamic  radicalists are radicalized, that's the age group. Also that.   
KELLY: And Tim, let me interrupt you. To those who are of to those who say, well, you must be a bigot because you've heard a Muslim name, and you have  jumped and you heard he's religious and jumped to conclusion that he must be a  terrorist? Well, of course he's alleged to have participated in a mass murder  but why can it be work place violence?   
CLEMENTE: It can be Megyn, it can be both actually. Well he may have taken the opportunity of using the place where he worked as a soft target for terrorist  attack. And for those that might think I'm a Muslim hater, I would say that I  probably have many more Muslim friends around the world than by far of the  average viewer of the program.   
KELLY: No one really think that about you. I'm just saying. That's the debate goes on this country.   
CLEMENTE: Hundreds. Yeah, I know. But, no, I understand that but the reason I bring that up is because those Muslim friends of mine fight this the same way I  do. They are a big part of this fight all over the world. I was in North Africa  last week and the Middle East the week before. And, you know, this problem is  something that's permeating the world.    And I can't say with absolute certainty that it is Islamic extremism but it sure  looks that way. And I'm not afraid to say that based on what we've seen thus  far. Obviously more information will come out. Hopefully this next press  conference will give us a few more indications on what was found in the home,  what was found in the SUV and what was found at the initial crime scene. But the  fact that.   
KELLY: What's definitive proof, you know, in today's scene is what kind of definitive proof are they looking for in terms of motive? Are they going to find  -- if they don't find sort of Jihadi amphlets in there, what's the proof?   
CLEMENTE: You don't need, Megyn you don't need to have this guy to have written out a manifesto that he's going to do something like this. The definitive proof  is obviously the act points in one direction. It's a substantial step towards a  terrorist act. What he did, what he committed. Also he could have communication,  he could have books. He could have literature and he could have other things in  his home, or in the, you know, SUV that were target lists of other places that  were not .   
KELLY: There's going to be so sort of thrill in other words. I mean this is a guy that went back to his house after he committed the crime allegedly and  possibly. And so the odds of him wiping everything clean and leaving no clues,  whatever the motivation are pretty slim. I've got to run. Tim, thank you.   
CLEMENTE: You're welcome.  
KELLY: Again, we're waiting to hear from the officials, moments away. They're running a little late now. But you can see there at the microphones are setup  and we expect to get an update from the FBI moments from now, also when we come  back, our reporter who is in the middle of it all, today.   
KELLY: Waiting again to hear from authorities on an update as to whether this is in fact terrorism as the signs appear to be suggesting now. Adam Housley has an  update on that, live in San Bernardino. Adam?   
HOUSLEY: Yeah, Megyn. A couple things for you and some big details. Actually first of all I've been told by law enforcement that they believe that they  killed the two suspects, that they didn't shoot themselves that at the actual  during that chase that exclusive video that Fox has, that during that video, the  suspects were shot and killed. The second thing is we want to clarify also when  I said the law enforcement talking about the individual going there and casing  the location.    Yes, they believe he knew the location but they use the word case meaning that  he went to check it out to see if it was soft and if there were a lot of people  inside. That was the theory they were going on. I have now been told and this  all makes sense now that a Joint Terrorism Task Force is involved and basically  that they're looking for a motive.    Read into that what that you want Megyn but when the JTTF gets into it, you know  that they believe there could be a something pretty serious involved that I'll  leave it at that. Basically the quote was "JTTF involved not characterized it  yet because we don't have a clear motive, still early."    Roughly -- that actually makes a lot of sense, it is still there early. They  still got into the house and got stuff out and so gout out of the stuff out of  the SUV. There's a lot of investigative work to be done here, including online  stuff but again headline here, the JTTF, Megyn, is involved in this  investigation.   
KELLY: Adam, thank you. Joining me now is Joshua Katz. He's a former CIA operations officer and now specializes in homeland security and intel. What does  that mean, Josh that the Joint Terrorism Task Force is now getting involved?   
JOSHUA KATS, FORMER CIA OPERATIONS OFFICER: I think, Megyn, it means that we are now seeing that this is now a terrorism investigation. This is going to be  terrorism whether this couple was motivated by ISIS, or Al- Qaeda, we'll find  out whether they were directed, it's not looking like a directed attack. Because  a lot of the indications here are that this was personal. There was a personal  thing going on here that's going to come out as well.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We still got all these stuff going on. Oh they're after somebody. Oh       
KELLY: Sorry. I'm sorry Josh I'm losing my ear. Talk about the significance. I mean I've asked about this before but if this is a husband wife pair who  committed, you know, murder, that's one thing.   
KATZ: Right.  
KELLY: If this is a husband, wife radical Jihadi pair who committed terror, that's something -- have we seen that before in the United States?   
KATZ: This would be the first time that we have seen that here, but we have seen this play out in lots of different parts of the world, in Northern Africa, the  Middle East even in Southeast Asia. So this sort of pairing is not necessarily  abnormal, but it is for us. And this is -- absolutely, we get to the heart of  the matter here, Megyn, which is that terrorism it doesn't look like we've been  told. It's very, very fluid. It changes and we all need to be alert to all of  the -- even little signs here that something maybe happening with somebody or  one of our coworkers or what have you.   
KELLY: But if you were tapped by President Obama tomorrow, to stop home grown terror, to stop, you know, even Jihadis coming in from other countries not with  the Syrian passport, right but with maybe some European passport. Maybe they're  French born and they're coming to United States. How would you do it? What do  you need? This is they're getting a white balance on the camera to make sure  that the shot looks OK so presumably we're going to get a press conference soon.  Go ahead, Josh.   
KATZ: And so, Megyn, this is there's a bunch of steps here but first of all we have to root. We have to go for the heart of the problem which is radical Islam.  We need to take care of that and take care of that a forceful way.   
KELLY: Is that, you're talking about a generational effort. I mean that's today people want to know how they're going to protect their children and themselves  today.   
KATZ: Absolutely but we have to do that in concert with all the surveillance of people, the arrests of people, the intelligence that needs to go on both at home  and abroad. This is.   
KELLY: OK, but -- OK. So surveillance doesn't work unless somebody has broken the law. Do we have some reasonable suspicion about them beyond their ethnicity  or their religious affiliation?   
KATZ: Yes.  
KELLY: So now, intelligence. OK. How do you get it? I mean is it, you monitor the web site they're going to? Do they keep track of people who buy bulletproof  vests and cameo gear with no military affiliation? I don't think they do.   
KATZ: No, no. We shouldn't do that because there are a lot of indications here if were looking in the right places. And so, what the intelligence apparatus  needs to do is it needs to have more of the human intelligence part to get  people on the ground trained human collectors who are doing this abroad because  we need to fight this before it ever gets to the U.S. and lets that's the thing  is we need to push that out and make sure that we as a society are safe and  let's have this conflict somewhere else.   
KELLY: Yeah. Josh, thank you.  
KATZ: Thank you.  
KELLY: You heard him say it. Joint Terrorism Task Force is involved in that in the eyes of our guest means this is now a terror investigation. Joining me now  is David Danelski. He's a reporter with Press-Enterprise. He was in the middle  of the action today when police shot and killed two suspects in a dark SUV in  San Bernardino. David, thanks for joining us. He's with us by phone. Tell us  what happened.   
DAVID DANELSKI, PRESS-ETNERPRISE REPORTER: Well, as one of several reporters on news paper spent to cover the story. And I was actually at a community center.  This was a community center where family members were waiting for love ones.  Speed bus back from the facility when the shooting occurred and we talked to a  few family members. Wow, is there I got a tip from a resident who had got a cell  phone call saying that her work place in another part of town was under a lock  down because there was a sighting of the SUV there.    So I thought I'd go check that tip out. And there are larger of the City of San  Bernardino cordoned off by police so kind of a wide circle to try to get to this  location. And I honestly thought it was be another a rumor to chase. And then I  saw several police cars basically turn on the streets called San Bernardino  Avenue going into the next town of Redlands so I was wondering what was going on  there. So I started driving at San Bernardino Avenue then, I was driving.   
KELLY: Let's just, let's get to the part where things really started to unfold.  
DANELSKI: Yeah, OK, sorry. OK. That part is right now. Then as I was driving I heard a thunderous shot and the whizzingg sounds going by the car. So I pulled  over and I heard more, I grab my -- and I could see police were gathered in a  group about a half a block away. So I tried to get closer with my camera. And  then, behind me, more and more police started arriving and more and more  shooting was occurring and I.   
KELLY: Could you tell that it was a return of fire that the SUV was firing back at cops?   
DANELSKI: No. From my point of view, I could not see which way the gunfire was going.   
KELLY: How did they stop the SUV? How did it come to a stop?  
DANELSKI: I didn't see that. It had -- it had already -- that there was no traffic coming my way. It had already stopped and the shooting was continuing.   
KELLY: Now, did you ever get close enough to see the condition of the bodies inside?   
DANELSKI: No, I did not see the bodies. I never did see the bodies.  
KELLY: And yet, we've now had confirmation from the police that the two are dead.   
DANELSKI: Yeah, in fact no one knew about bodies been in that until the police confirmed it several hours later.   
KELLY: And hopefully they're about to give us more information. And David thank you, we appreciate it.   
DANELSKI: OK. Thank you.  
KELLY: Look, you can see the police are now getting ready to come to the microphones. We should expect, we hope, a more fruitful update from the  authorities. We do not know whether they will declare that it is terror or  whether they even can. Obviously, they need to be careful in their language. It  is important for the American people to try to understand what happened today  and what the risks are before they go into the next day.    What potentially may endanger them and their families, and so they want to know  all they can. We've tried to bring you the options tonight and the FBI, we hope,  will bring you the facts and confirmations in moments. Our coverage continues in  a moment. Don't go away, I'm Megyn Kelly.   
