  
 GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: Tonight, ON THE RECORD, well, at least General Joseph Dunford will admit it. ISIS is not contained. Now the  chairman of the Joint Chief of Staffs making this admission. Today while  testifying on Capitol Hill, and the general statement that was in direct  conflict with what President Obama insisted just one day before the Paris terror  attacks. President Obama said ISIS is contained. So which is it?       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: From the start, our goal has been first to contain and we have contained them.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We currently contained ISIL.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have not contained ISIL.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ISIS is gaining strength, aren't they?  
OBAMA: I don't think they are gaining strength.  
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have a president that thinks that ISIS has been contained.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He keeps asserting well they are contained. No, they're not.  
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: ISIS is not a JV team, Mr. President. They are not contained.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He hasn't contained anything.  
FIORINA: They are at our shores and they measure their victory in body counts.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Strategically they have spread.  
OBAMA: We have contained them.      
VAN SUSTEREN: And today Secretary of Defense Ash Carter saying 200 U.S. Special Operations Forces are being sent to Iraq to target ISIS. Right now Arizona  congresswoman and the first female fighter pilot to fly in combat, Congressman  Martha McSally goes ON THE RECORD.    Nice to see you.   
MARTHA MCSALLY, ARIZONA CONGRESSWOMAN: Good to see you, Greta.  
VAN SUSTEREN: If it weren't so serious, it's rather disturbing that the president said ISIS is contained as the joint chief of staff says it's not  contained. It's like who is on first. What is the problem here? I mean, doesn't  everybody know?   
MCSALLY: Well, yes, they are not contained. And General Dunford has asked to give his best military advice when he is testifying before Congress. So I'm glad  that he actually admitted that.    That hearing went on for several hours and even though there is some increased  deployments, there is still more of the same gradualism and incrementalism. This  threat has been growing and metastasizing since they declared the caliphate 17  months ago.   
VAN SUSTEREN: But that's what's so disturbing. I mean, the president is commander-in-chief and we have some maps that we can put up on here to show him  if he would just look at our maps to see where we have isolated ISIS. You could  tell that look -- here's November 2015. That's the ISIL. Look at that map right  there. That's where ISIS is. Now let's go back. Look at that, that's February  2015. I mean, how in the world is our commander-in-chief thinking that it's  contained?   
MCSALLY: And not only that, but they have got influence and up to 19 different countries. They have a very sophisticated social media campaign. We have what we  know about is 30,000 foreign fighters from 100 different countries that are  flowing into Iraq and Syria. We have 900 investigations in all 50 states in  America.    Libya is now becoming another safe haven and exporting their terror. What we saw  on the Sinai. This is more metastasizing, which also they admitted today that  this is growing and metastasizing. And this administration has not seriously had  a strategy to defeat and destroy them.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, look at side by side. President Obama just take 30 seconds to turn on "Fox News," he would know this is not contained. When he  looks at February until just now.    All right, well, today the big news is that we are going to put special ops on  the ground. But here is the thing that I thought was interesting is, and this is  where the general is probably in conflict again with the president because  General Dunford said that we are going to go where the enemy is. Meaning, they  are going to ignore borders. So everyone can talk about dropping these troops,  these special ops in Iraq. They are going into Syria.   
MCSALLY: Well, they use them carefully worded phrasing to say that they would be positioned to be able to conduct unilateral operations in Syria. Again, this is  just a small increase.   
VAN SUSTEREN: He said we are going to ignore borders. We are going to where the enemy is.   
MCSALLY: Exactly. And we have been calling. I've been calling for special operation troops, for unleashing air power, for doing more to defeat and destroy  their command, their logistics capability. This appears to be a shift, but I'm  concerned that it's more incrementalism.    They also admitted today that they considered the truck drivers of the oil  trucks that we finally started bombing to be non-combatants. I just can't  believe that. We drop leaflets telling them to get away from their trucks before  we actually hit them.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You know, you say that it's a shift, but you know, I actually think that the military has been pulling its hair out, trying to get the  president to, you know, open up his eyes because even former head of Defense  Intel, Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, over on CNN with Jake Tapper, he told Jake Tapper  that leading up to the 2012 election, the president's advisors ignored  intelligence predicting the rise of ISIS because it didn't meet their elective  narrative and he called them JV. Of course, we know in January of 2014.   
MCSALLY: Right.  
VAN SUSTEREN: What is going on with this president?  
MCSALLY: It seems like this president campaigned on wanting to get out of the Middle East. He has been their reluctant commander-in-chief wanting to shift to  Asia. Ignore this threat. Been very myopically, also focused on the nuclear deal  with Iran, which is related to this because our Sunni, Arab partners in the  region are more concerned about Iran, which is a militant Islam great state  sponsor of terror and they are refusing to take action against ISIS.   
VAN SUSTEREN: But he's almost got a viewpoint of one. If he's got the military people and if he's got the general now saying publicly something directly  contradicting, which is actually a big deal. I mean, he has a viewpoint of one.   
MCSALLY: I agree. He is detached. He is listening to the wrong people. His tone has been off. His understanding of the facts have been off. The American people  are now deeply concerned about this threat and their impact on the homeland. And  President Obama continues to think the largest enemy he has is the G.O.P.    So I'm glad to see that his military advisors are finally speaking some of the  truth. But I'm still concern for the testimony today. It's more of the same sort  of reluctance. The more of the same, maybe we're going to do a little bit more.  And we learned in Vietnam that gradualism does not work. We need to look at them  as a state. We need to identify their centers of gravity. Their critical  capabilities and we would unleash American air power in a way that they have  been reluctant to do in order to destroy them where they are.   
 VAN SUSTEREN: Congresswoman, thank you. And as always, thank you for your service as I always say to you. Nice to see you.   
MCSALLY: Absolutely. Good to see you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And I want to know what you viewers think at home. President Obama says ISIS is contained. Is he right or is he wrong?    Tweet right or tweet wrong using #Greta and we will show you your live Twitter  votes throughout the show.    And developing now, Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton taking a page out  of President Obama's playbook. Secretary Clinton announcing she is opposed to  sending U.S. combat troops to fight ISIS.       
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I agree with the president's point that we're not putting American combat troops back in to Syria or Iraq. We are  not going to do that. In terms of thousands of combat troops like some on the  Republican side are recommending. I think that should be a non-starter. And it  should be a non-starter both because I don't think it's a smartest way to go  after ISIS. I think it gives ISIS a new recruitment tool if we get back in the  fight.       
VAN SUSTEREN: The ON THE RECORD political panel is here. From the "Boston Globe," Matt Viser and from the "Washington Post," Aaron Blake.    Matt, first to you, Secretary Clinton says that she doesn't want combat troops  on the ground. That's her position. She is obviously not the president. Are we  fooling ourselves? And we got these 200 special ops on the ground. Are they  going there? I mean, aren't they going there to fight?   
MATT VISER, BOSTON GLOBE: I mean, there are special operations troops there already and heading -- more heading there. I do think the difference that  Hillary Clinton would try to draw is ground troops is a different order of  magnitude. There would be larger groups of them. They would be fighting directly  rather than providing more of a supportive role.    So that's the difference that she is trying to draw in where see she is kind of  aligning herself with the president. She hasn't done that in the past. She has  been more hawkish. She supported no-fly zone and things like that.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And in all fairness to her, she has been out of office for four years so she doesn't have the Intel as no candidate for president has the Intel  that the president has.    Of course the president though is, as I said, has a viewpoint of one apparently,  if his generals say something different.   
AARON BLAKE, WASHINGTON POST: And, look, Hillary Clinton is playing the same semantics game that the White House has been playing with this announcement.  There were a number of instances where Obama or top officials, foreign policy  officials in the White House said that there would not be ground troops in Iraq  and Syria.    Later on, it became no combat ground troops and that's the line that they are  going with in this particular case. So, you know, it's a nice thing to say there  will be no combat ground troops, but if there is anything that this last few  years has shown us is that it's hard to make any kind of guarantees in these  circumstances and certainly Hillary Clinton left herself some wiggle room in  case that were ever to come to pass.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I think it's fair to sort of hit the president over the head with the fact that he sort of slow to see what his generals are seeing. I think  that's fair. But I think on the other hand, he said we sort of have to make it  safe for our politicians to change their views based on changed circumstances,  you know. So that they, you know, they don't sort of get into a situation where  they just want to be right.   
VISER: The other interesting thing I think to point out with Hillary Clinton is that she was arguing as secretary of state more forcefully for arming Syrian  rebels.       
VAN SUSTEREN: And Libya. And with Libya as well, she was --  
VISER: So she comes at this from a different perspective than the president and she advised him differently than the advice he did not take her advice.   
VAN SUSTEREN: How important is this? Does it mean this could be the issue in 2016?   
BLAKE: You know, I would say right now it looks more and more -- it's a year out, obviously. But certainly this issue has shown no signs of abating. It's  only become more of an issue now of course with the Paris attacks.    You know, if indeed ISIS is planning to strike elsewhere. Worldwide, it's only  going to become a bigger issue. Obviously, we hope that doesn't happen. But  certainly this is an issue that, I think a few months ago we didn't think was  going to be a real big deal in the 2016 campaign. The candidates just cannot  ignore it right now.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And, of course, something happen huge in our economy that then becomes the issue because we are rather fickle that way.    Anyway, Matt and Aaron, stick around.    This is a "Fox News" alert.    A huge explosion caught on camera. The explosion ripping through an overpass  near a metro station in Istanbul, Turkey. Local officials say yes, it was a  bomb.    GRN reporter Laura Wells is live in Istanbul.    Laura, what's the latest?   
LAURA WELLS, GRN REPORTER: Well, this happened during rush hour at 5:15 Local Time. The Istanbul governor has said that he is very lucky there was no loss of  life. He said that one person had been injured. This contradicted earlier  reports from the mayor of the district who said that 6 people had been injured.    There has been no claim of responsibility. Although Turkey has been suffering  from public bombing since early June, which has claimed the lives of 140 people.  This includes the deadliest terrorist attack in Turkey's history in the capital  on October 10th.    The difference here is that it didn't target a group. The other bombings  targeted leftist and Kurds. This was just in a public area in downtown Istanbul.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Laura, it's no secret that Turkey has been involved in air strikes in Syria. Is this sort of the working theory, people suspicious tonight that it  is ISIS?   
WELLS: That's certainly a consideration and ISIS has retaliated on Turkish soil. There is also the thought that it could be a PKK attack because of course that's  ongoing conflict on Turkish soil between the military and the Kurdish separatist  militia, the PKK, which has claimed over 2,000 lives since July. So we just  don't know at this time.   
VAN SUSTEREN: No doubt security has been heightened in that city.  
WELLS: Absolutely. You see police everywhere. It's really something. I mean, Turks are both terrified at what's going on. But they are also desensitized  because there is not a day that goes by that you don't hear of some sort of  strife or a death in the headlines. So it's just continuing.    And Turkey is fighting on all fronts. And, of course, the tensions with Russia  are also escalating. And Russia has intensified its air strikes on both Turkish  support for rebels there as well as the Turkish supported rebels in northern  Syria.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Laura, thank you.  
WELLS: Thank you. And the international manhunt still underway for those fugitive suspects in the Paris terror massacre. And, today, another huge  development. A trial now underway for the French ISIS leader believed to be the  key planner behind the attack.    Feature story news correspondent Kevin Ozebek is live in Brussels.    Kevin, what's the latest?   
KEVIN OZEBEK, FEATURE NEWS STORY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Greta, the man on trial is Salim Benghalem. He and six others are accused of running this ISIS recruiting  network that was totally aimed at enticing French nationals to move down to  Raqqa and in other parts of Syria to fight alongside ISIS.    Now Benghalem is actually being tried in Absentia. He is not in Paris. He is not  in custody, rather it is believed he is still in Raqqa, Syria, which is the de  facto capital of ISIS.    Now what's very interesting, Greta, is in the past few days, some French media  outlets have began to report that it's possible that Benghalem really is the  true mastermind of the November 13th attacks. We're all familiar now with the  name Abdelhamid Abaaoud.    He was at first labelled the mastermind, but now some journalist in Paris are  citing sources. And these sources are saying that it's very possible that  Benghalem was actually coordinating the attack and delivering orders from Raqqa.    Greta, Benghalem is also a wanted man by the U.S. He is on the U.S. most wanted  list of terrorists. And that is because Washington believes he did hold some  responsibility in holding westerners hostage in Syria and also possibly may have  even been behind the executions of some of them.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, every night I ask you about the ongoing manhunt. And so far there hasn't been much -- and there has been absolutely no information in the  past several nights. Have they reached a dead end on this manhunt? Are they sort  of having the sense that he has gotten away?   
OZEBEK: Well, that's a very good question, Greta, because Salah Abdeslam has now been on the run for 18 days. So for 18 days now here in Brussels, the search has  been on for this man, but still no sign of him. We did reach out to Belgium  authorities both yesterday and today and, Greta, so far we have not heard back  from them.    Now, of course, when it comes to exactly what Belgium intelligence officers  know, they're not going to release everything when it comes to this  investigation and manhunt. But, in the past few days, Greta, we have heard no  updates when it comes to the search for him. But we do know police raids still  continue here in Brussels and throughout this country.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, thank you.   News is extremely is disturbing. Two United States senators claiming that  federal officials placed young unaccompanied immigrants, that means children, in  the homes of convicted criminals. And some of those criminals sex traffickers  and human smugglers.    One of those senators, Texas Senator John Cornyn goes ON THE RECORD from the  capitol.    Good evening, sir.   
SEN. JOHN CORNYN, TEXAS: Hi, Greta, good to be with you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Nice to have you. So tell me, sir, what is it that you have found out about these kids who were streaming across our southern border into the  United States. Where are they?   
CORNYN: Well, as you know, there was a huge humanitarian crisis in 2014 when tens of thousands of these children came across, some with their parents, some  unaccompanied because they realized that there were no detention facilities  available to hold them so they would then be placed with sponsors here in the  United States. Many of whom were not citizens. Many of whom were not relatives.    But what we point out is that many of them have not been vetted properly for  criminal background checks and indeed one whistle blower has reported roughly 10  percent of a tested sample showed that these sponsors were in fact did have  criminal records.    This is a threat and to the children because many of them will continue to be  exploited here in the United States by criminal organizations.     All right. Now, it couldn't be more unthinkable. And I saw the report  of some boys being trafficked. Teen boys in the State of Ohio, labor  exploitation.    I mean, somebody is responsible for this. Someone is letting this happen to  these children. Who is it?   
CORNYN: Well it's the Department of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services in this administration that refuse to work with us to provide a speedy  access to a court so that these children can have their immigration status  adjudicated before a judge based on the facts of their individual case.    Instead, they thought the humane thing to do was to let them continue to flood  in the United States and place them with these sponsors. But what we find out is  that they put them in increased jeopardy.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Do we know where these children are? I mean, are they sponsors accounted for? Are they monitored? Is there any effort to police them?   
CORNYN: Well, that's part of what Senator Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee and I have asked for is in essence an audit. But I really  doubt that we're going to be able to find some of these kids because I think  many of them will be placed with a sponsor, will have since moved on, and, as  you know, these criminal organizations that basically run the human smuggling  and human trafficking operations between here and Mexico and Central America,  their tentacles spread into the United States. So there is no telling what's  happened to some of these kids.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, you know, I mean, look, there is so much human trafficking in the world and a lot of people won't admit that we have it here in the United  States. Now we have children that come across our border and if this whistle  blower is correct, I mean, put them in the hands of smugglers, human  traffickers, felons, sex offenders. I can't think of anything more unthinkable.    And, I mean, someone has got to be held accountable. Heads have got to roll some  place. We can't just do this to children.   
CORNYN: Well, that's why Senator Grassley and I wrote this letter and why we tried to raise the visibility of this issue. We have seen an up tick in the  number of children coming from Central America, again. This appears to be  somewhat seasonal. But the problem is not over once they get here and I think we  have a responsibility to at least make sure that they are not exploited and that  they are safe. But, unfortunately, there don't seem to be the procedures in  place from the administration to assure us or them of that.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Well that neglect is absolutely cruel and inhumane. And I'm shocked that, you know, that the HHS or anyone else wouldn't be policing  this to make sure that didn't happen.    Senator, thank you. I hope you and Senator Grassley -- I hope you bring the  Secretary of HHS up to the hill and ask questions.   
CORNYN: Absolutely. Thanks, Greta.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, sir.   And Herman Cain on the campaign trail with Donald Trump. Cain getting all fired  up. Who did he go after? That's next.    Also, the first trial of one of the police officers charged in the death of  Freddie Gray. Getting closer to opening statements. Can he get a fair trial? The  former DOJ official is here coming up.   
 VAN SUSTEREN: Outsider candidate turned G.O.P. frontrunner, yes, Donald Trump now getting a little help from a former outsider candidate himself,  Herman Cain.    The 2012 presidential contender speaking at a Trump rally in Georgia.       
HERMAN CAIN, 2012 G.O.P. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Many of you all know that I was considered an outsider. And let me tell you something about my definition of an  outsider. If you were born in the United States of America, you are an insider  through and through.       
VAN SUSTEREN: But today Herman Cain was careful to say that he is not endorsing Donald Trump. The ON THE RECORD political panel is back.    Matt, I thought the candidate sort of wanted to be outsiders and now Herman Cain  says that the outsiders are insiders because they were born here. I'm a little  confused.   
VISER: It is interesting. And it's interesting watching Trump, you know, with people who are, you know, introducing him. I mean, Trump is somebody whose  campaign spokeswoman barely speaks for him. I mean, Trump himself is usually the  person speaking for Trump. So it's interesting this week he is seeking  endorsements yesterday and then also had Herman Cain sort of speaking on his  behalf.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Does Herman Cain help him?  
VISER: I don't know that he does. I mean, Herman Cain, the other interesting thing about this is Herman Cain had a brief blip, you know, in the 2012  campaign.    Trump we thought would be a brief blip like Herman Cain, but Trump, you know,  here, he is going on, you know, 90th day of polls.   
BLAKE: It's not hard to draw a line from Donald Trump to Herman Cain. As Cain himself acknowledged when he was on stage. You know, political outsider,  businessman comes into the race, you know, Herman Cain was leading the race  albeit for a shorter period of time to come to his personal issues which by the  way were pretty serious allegations that were involved there. So, you know, I'm  not sure this hurts somebody like Donald Trump necessarily because he is Donald  Trump. But it's certainly not somebody you would necessarily want to have on  stage if you were a regular politician.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, the so-called establishment G.O.P. 90 days ago was just waiting for Donald Trump to flame out, fade out. Now they seem to admit that he  is here to stay. I mean, he is still on top of the polls.   
VISER: They are realizing that he is here to stay and something needs to be done. The question is what. And you are seeing John Kasich, Super PAC going  after him with some ads. You are seeing Jeb Bush's rhetoric go up a little bit  against Trump. But, still, nothing is proven, you know, that effective.   
VAN SUSTEREN: What sounds almost like the American people, I mean, at least the G.O.P., I should say, the Republican G.O.P. still wants Trump no matter how much  these people running, you know, say things about Trump.   
BLAKE: Well, look, the issue here, I don't think Donald Trump is going to win a majority of Republican votes in any given state, but he has gotten a very --   
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, neither has anybody else gotten any. He has gotten more than anybody else.   
BLAKE: You know, he is a very niche candidate. He's got a very solid base that doesn't seem to be --       
VAN SUSTEREN: I would rather have his niche tonight than some of the other niches around 2 percent. I mean, that's a good niche.       
BLAKE: Definitely. But the problem with this is you can go after him as much as you want, but those supporters are going to stay by him. And once you get into  the primary process, you basically need to wait for these other candidates to  drop out and hope you can finally surpass him. But that's a process that needs  to play out. And there's no indication that it's not going to start until after  the states actually start voting in this process.   
VISER: I think people are realizing too how long this nominating contest could actually go. Giving Trump strength and that he has a solid base and the  proportionality, you know, of some of those states that this could be a very  long nominating contest.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, one thing we can all agree on, it won't be dull. It will not be dull. You know, buckle up. This will be quite a ride.    Anyway, Matt, Aaron, thank you both.    And at any moment, Iraq will kick off a major offensive to take back a key city  from ISIS. We are live in the Middle East. That's next.   
 VAN SUSTEREN: This is a "Fox News" alert. At any moment, the Iraqi military is set to launch a major offensive to take back the key city Ramadi  from ISIS control. The military is now warning civilians to get out before Iraqi  forces storm that city.    "Fox News" correspondent Conor Powell is live in our Middle East bureau.    Conor?   
CONOR POWELL, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, at this point, the city of Ramadi is effectively surrounded by Iraqi troops while U.S.-led collision planes  continue to target ISIS positions in and around the city. But there is really  little reason to think that this is going to be a quick military option. The  battle for Ramadi has really been in the works now for months.    Last year Iraqi forces tried to launch an unsuccessful operation to retake the  predominantly Sunni town. That operation though failed pretty quickly. Once  again showing how poorly organized the Iraqi military is and was.    Now, U.S. trainers have spent most of this year trying to rebuild the Iraqi  military, trying to get it up to speed. And so far the Iraqi forces do seem to  be making some progress. They have taken a key bridge leading into the City of  Ramadi. They have also begun to cut ISIS supply lines, but make no mistake, this  is really a siege battle plan encircling the city and squeezing ISIS over a long  period of time, and that's really we're looking at U.S. officials are talking  about months, not weeks or even days for defeating ISIS in this area. Both  Germany and the United States have announced that they are going to send  additional troops to help the Iraqi military defeat ISIS. However, tonight,  Greta, the Iraqi prime minister said his country doesn't need foreign troops on  the ground there. History though says otherwise. The Iraqi troops are in  desperate need of a lot of help, not only from the United States but from a lot  of other countries. They so far have just not proved effective into fighting  ISIS on the ground. Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Conor, thank you. In May, when Ramadi fell to ISIS, it sent shockwaves signaling a major loss of Iraqi forces. Why is taking Ramadi so  critical? Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North is here to go "On the Record." First,  Colonel, is it Oli? Why is Ramadi so important?   
OLIVER NORTH, LIEUTENANT COLONEL U.S. MARINE CORPS: Well, it's the heartland of all the Sunni tribes in all of Iraq. Anbar province, the largest province, the  capital of it is Ramadi, I've spent -- I add up the number of deployments I made  to Ramadi, it was over a dozen, and thus, we did there over the course of that  period of time when things were turning out right. The tribes, the awakening,  all began in Ramadi. Of course, Fallujah got a lot of news back in April and  again in November the year before in 2014 but -- in 2004. By the time 2006 got  around, they had targeted Zarqawi, who was in Ramadi, as the head of AQI,  Al-Qaeda in Iraq, and the tribes had joined the American side. The tribes have  now been dissipated. And what's being played out -- and Connor had it absolutely  right. What's being played out is Iran's plan for the Euphrates River Valley.  Euphrates River Valley is key to supplying Hezbollah inside Syria, and of  course, Lebanon and that land route goes from the Iranian border through Baghdad  all the way up to the Euphrates River Valley. And without Ramadi, they can't  supplies by land to Hezbollah. So this is Tehran's plan.       
VAN SUSTEREN: So, why does the Iraqi foreign minister -- Iraqi foreign minister says he needs no help from -- he doesn't need any help?   
NORTH: Because the Baghdad government is a wholly own subsidiary of the Tehran ayatollahs and that's whose plan is being played out here.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Can Iraq with the help of Iran or whoever -- can they take back Ramadi?   
NORTH: I went through the intelligence today and I looked at it. There are 13 Iranian supported militia groups in Anbar province and it's west of Baghdad. You  would expect from them to be in Baghdad because that's, of course, the side of  militia's home. It's where they're also starting recruited so many of them. But  they're west up the upper Euphrates River Valley, west of there, and they are  going to be actively engaged in this. It will be a blood bath of biblical  proportions if those militias -- those Shiite militias, supported by Iran, go  into Ramadi.       
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, they are -- apparently, that's the expectation. But to say Iraqi forces that I assume with those militias, right?   
NORTH: Of course. And that's why this thing is going to be a disaster. What they should have done is, listen, you had as a guest on your show Mudhar Shawkat, who  sat right here and said, "I, Mudhar Shakwat, with national salvation front, can  put together a Sunni opposition to ISIS," and he was ignored all over  Washington.   
VAN SUSTEREN: He came here. He came here asking for help.  
NORTH: He did, indeed. In fact .  
VAN SUSTEREN: Not to the set but to Capitol Hill.      
NORTH: . met with him over there, Congressman Steve King met with him, while I was there just a few weeks ago. If the administration would like to know how bad  things are, they could take the footage we shot over there, and you can see it.  Ash Carter said today that we're going to send Special Operations Forces to Iraq  with the support of the Iraqi government to help Peshmerga. I'll will believe it  when I see it.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. What do you make of the joint chief of staffs chairman saying that ISIS is not contained in -- which is directly contradicts with the  commander in chief, President Obama, a day before in Paris?   
NORTH: I can recall when he being asked for confirmation hearings, fighting Joe Dunford said, "I will speak truth to power," and he is doing just exactly that.       
VAN SUSTEREN: Why is he doing -- is he doing it quietly before doing it publicly?   
NORTH: He was asked the question. He was asked the question today, are they contained, and the answer is no, they are not contained.   
VAN SUSTEREN: There are the two maps, February 2015 to November, the president says it's contained. And just look at the map. I mean just look at the  red marks. You can see it spreading.        North: It's not just in Syria and Iraq. You now have ISIS in scantsin  Libya. You have them in the Sinai. You have them in Yemen. Have you them in  Nigeria.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You have them in Paris?  
NORTH: Well, in other words, it's certainly not contained. And the idea that they have somehow been rocked back in their fields is just as phony as Kerry  saying that Ramadi is a set back and it will be reversedin a matter of  days. Here we are six months after he said it. We're about to see -- if it  actually takes place -- a battle that is going to create enormous civilian  casualties because that's the way the Iranians fight and it's going to be  devastating.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Colonel, nice to see you, sir.  
NORTH: Good to be with you, Greta.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And the video of a Chicago cop shooting and killing a black teen causing a major shakeup tonight, we're live in Chicago straight ahead. Plus a  mystery, a mayor, found dead inside his home and right now police have no idea  what caused this mysterious death, but there are clues. That's coming up.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Breaking right now. Chicago's top cop fired. Gary McCarthy's firing coming in response to enormous public backlash over the video showing  fatal shooting 16 times by a black teenager by a white cop. Fox News  correspondent, Mike Tobin, is live in Chicago. Mike?   
MIKE TOBIN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: And late breaking, Greta, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan has reached out to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch  requesting a federal investigation into the patterns and practices of Chicago  police. She highlighted what she called unlawful and excessive use of force and  the lack of accountability. All of this coming on a day when Mayor Rahm Emanuel  demanded and received the resignation of his hand-picked police superintendent,  Gary McCarthy. That came in the wake of public demonstrations and cries of a  cover up. Emanuel would not give a specific reason for McCarthy's firing, only  that instead of handling issues McCarthy had had become an issue. He was a  distraction. All of that follows last week's court order release of dash cam  video showing Officer Jason Van Dyke unloading an entire clip into 17-year-old  Laquan McDonald. Most of the shots were fired while McDonald was already on the  ground. That prompted those angry demonstrations from people furious at the  superintendent, states attorney, and mayor knew about the tape for more than a  year before Van Dyke was charged. One of the things Emanuel said today is that a  police officer, meaning McCarthy, is only as effective as when he has the trust  of the people he serves. Well, now you have minority leaders, the angry mob  demonstrating on the street and major newspaper op- eds insisting that Emanuel  no longer has the trust of the people he serves. Greta?   
VAN SUSTEREN: Mike, thank you. And today is day two of jury selection highly anticipated trial for the first of six Baltimore police officers charged in the  death of Freddie Gray. Opening statements could begin tomorrow. Yesterday "On  the Record" reported the jurors inside the courtroom could hear protesters  outside the courtroom chanting. So can Officer William Porter and the other five  officers get a fair trial? Former DOJ official and former deputy legal counsel  for Maryland's governor, Chrys Kefalas, goes "On the Record." Chrys has been  here before. But before we get to Baltimore, you have an announcement to make.   
CHRYS KEFALAS, RUNNING FOR U.S. SENATE FOR MARYLAND: I do. You know, Marylanders have needed a different direction for a long time, 30 years of failures they  have dealt with. It's time now to restore the American dream, a dream that  inspired my grandparents to come to the United States, settle in Baltimore and  raise a family. And so, to restore that dream, to restore the middle class, I'm  going to run for the United States Senate to represent the people of Maryland  who deserve more jobs, fewer funerals.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And I should say as a Republican?  
KEFALAS: Yes.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And you are going to run as openly gay candidate?  
KEFALAS: Yeah. No one talks about that on the campaign trail. They talk about jobs, how are you going to support the middle class, what are you going to do to  improve national security in America. Those are the issues they care about and  that's what I'm running on.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Governor Hogan is a Republican new governor. Has he indicated at all -- I realize it's early. Are you likely to get his support because in  Democratic state I imagine that's important?   
KEFALAS: Well, when we win the Republican nomination, I intend to run on obviously his success. He is a good friend. We go back to the Ehrlich years. He  and I served Governor Ehrlich, he in personnel, I on legal issues. He proved  that Republican in Maryland can win and be successful.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. We'll be watching your race. All right. Now, turning to the state of Maryland, Baltimore. Do you think these police officers -- you have  got jury selection going on and you -- and I don't know why the judge let this  happened. They moved to another court, but they actually hear it outside.  According to Griff Jenkins, our reporter, they could hear the protesters outside  as they are trying to pick a jury..   
KEFALAS: We know there are challenges. Baltimore City is a tough place to prosecute. But the judge in this case is the judge we appointed during the  Erhlich years is very -- he was always fair minded, always a guy who ...   
VAN SUSTEREN: Was he -- was he a justice lawyer? He used to prosecute police in the justice department?   
KEFALAS: He was a justice, but he also was a prosecutor in Baltimore City. So he has a good -- pretty good amount of experience that he brings. He's always had a  reputation of being fair, impartial, someone who could look at the fair case and  make an assessment. But you know, he has left open the possibility that he could  potentially move this case out of Baltimore, but I think, you know, the  situation with Freddie Gray trial, the situation we're dealing with in Chicago,  underscores greater problems that we have, you know, the lack of jobs and  opportunity in Baltimore, the lack of efficiency and effectiveness in the war on  drugs.   
VAN SUSTEREN: How did -- how did that happen? You know, people have been going after the police and how they handled the protests and riots in April. But the  fact is that a lot of the city government has gotten a lot of money to try to  fix these problems for the citizens and they didn't fix it. And then, of course,  everyone -- all hell breaks loose like it did, and now, everyone blames the cops  for the riots, and of course, the people are looting, but what about the mope  that was given to the politicians, the city council to fix things?   
KEFALAS: I mean they're big failures.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Some. I mean a lot of.      
KEFALAS: My point is thosearen't just in Baltimore city and aren't by local municipal officials. It's also in Washington. The war on drugs has  resulted in the situation, as you know, Greta, where, you know, we have crime  and it is creating issues that have resulted where a law enforcement official  and the community are separated. There isn't work -- you know, any relationship  working together. I mean these are problems that have to be addressed and they  can only be addressed in Washington by, you know, focusing on the war on drugs,  ending it and decriminalizing some -- in many cases decriminalizing a lot of  drugs.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, I think if you follow the money in some of these local governments to see, you know, they make promises that they're going to help the  people in the community and they get millions of dollars in federal money and it  doesn't happen. There's obviously a situation -- something is not right, anyway  .   
KEFALAS: That's why we need a better direction and a different direction and I hope folks search throughmaryland.com to find our more.       
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Chrys nice to see you and we will be watching.  
KEFALAS: OK. Thanks, Greta.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And this is very strange. A newly elected mayor found dead inside his home. Now, there are some clues. A live report is coming up.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Get ready to speed read the news. Three people are lucky to be alive after a small plane crashed just moments after takeoff, the small  single-engine plane going down next to a canal in Miami. The three passengers  were taken to local hospitals, but all are expected to be OK. Now, the fourth  passenger, a dog named Sugar, he also OK. The 11-year- old golden mixed breed  was taken away from the crash scene on a stretcher and taken to a local vet with  just a small injury to her paws.    And it's a real life Hollywood mystery, LAPD are desperately searching for a  Hollywood producer who has been missing since before Thanksgiving. 27-year-old  Eric Kohler was last seen leaving his office in L.A. Kohler specializes in  visual effects and has worked on movies like Pirates of the Caribbean and The  Avengers.    And an active volcano in Mexico erupting four times in just one day. Since July,  the volcano has been spitting out ash and smoke into the sky, this Web cam  capturing all the action. Authorities are warning people to stay away but have  not ordered any evacuations. And that's tonight's speed read.    And breaking right now, mystery is swirling around the death of an Alaska mayor.  Alaska Juneau mayor Greg Fisk found dead inside his home and tonight, research  scrambling sorting through clues. Juneau Empire report, Sam DeGrave. Sam,  what's the latest?   
SAM DEGRAVE, JUNEAU EMPIRE CITY REPORTER: Hi, Greta. Juneau's chief of police confirmed this morning that police did find some injuries on Fisk's body  yesterday when they went into his home and found him. There are still several  questions that remain unanswered. However, we don't know how Fisk sustained  these injuries at this point and we probably won't until tomorrow morning after  an autopsy is conducted on Fisk's body, which was sent to Anchorage where the  state medical examiner's office is. We don't have any medical examiner's office  in Juneau and Anchorage is about 600- mile flight from here, so that's the delay  there.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Was there any indication of forced entry and did he have any health problems?   
DEGRAVE: There was not. A neighbor recalled -- there was no signed of forced entry. A neighbor recalled he had a heart attack 20 years ago now. Fisk is 70.  Another neighbor recalled some history of stroke. But the police at this point  have only able to rule out suicide as an option.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Does he live alone and who discovered him?  
DEGRAVE: Fisk does live alone and his son discovered his body yesterday afternoon after he tried to call him and Fisk did not answer. So he went to his  house and that's when he discovered him at about 3:30 p.m.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Anything unusual about the election? He was just elected mayor about four or five weeks ago, beating an incumbent.   
DEGRAVE: Yes. He beat the incumbent here by two to one margin, but there wasn't much unusual. Fisk is a well-liked guy, very well respected in the community,  even respected by our incumbent mayor whom he beat fairly handedly. Fisk was  sworn in on October 20th and everything had been in order up until yesterday.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Any neighborhood had any problems like breaking and entering, anything weird about the neighborhood?   
DEGRAVE: No. Fisk lived in the Star Hill neighborhood in downtown Juneau which is for all intents and purposes a very safe neighborhood. Juneau doesn't have a  huge history of violent crime. So, it was, I think, a shock to us all.   
VAN SUSTEREN: We will find out more tomorrow. Sam, thank you.  
DEGRAVE: You're welcome.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And a brand new GretaTalk podcast set for release tomorrow. I sat down with Wisconsin basketball coach, the amazing Bo Ryan. What does he think  about college athletes getting paid? And what 5'3" inch basketball player did we  talk about? Don't miss on GretaTalk. Subscribe for free on iTunes, Tunein or  Stitcher so you won't miss any GretaTalk episode.    And coming up, uh-oh, Thailand who called me in its paper rude and crude may  have more not so nice words for me. I will tell you Off the Record. That's next.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Let's all go off-the-record. I know Thailand is not a fan of mine. Remember, the Bangkok Post called me rude and crude after I called out the Thai  government for sadistically sitting on its radar data about the missing Malaysia  Airline Flight 370. For 10 days, they hid it. That was immoral of the military  of Thailand. Well, tonight Thailand is about to get angrier with me. I'm calling  them out again. Check out what a local Thai printer did to today's edition of  the international "New York Times." Why the big white spot? Well, because the  front page story dared to report about Thailand's economy which as you might  guess is lousy. And the story makes military-ruled government look likewise  lousy. The Thai printer cut the story leaving blank white spaces not just on the  front page but also on page 6, which is part 26 the article. The Thai printing  company is not explaining why, but I was not born yesterday. In Thailand, it's  illegal, 15 years in prison to defame, insult, or threaten the royal family. No  doubt the ruling military junta does not like bad stories about itself. No  freedom of speech and freedom of press in Thailand. And my guess, after this  comment, tomorrow that space, that could once again be filled trashing me again,  not rude and crude this time, maybe a bully, a bully for freedom of speech in  the press? Bring it on. And that's my Off- the-Record comment tonight.    And you have been voting on Twitter are. President Obama said ISIS is contained.  Is he right or wrong? Here are your results; 90 percent say he is wrong; 10  percent say he is right. And check this out. This is the best social media  picture of the day. That is Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and his wife,  Priscilla, with brand new baby girl, Max. Zuckerberg announcing he wants his  daughter, Max to grow up in a better world. So he will give away 99 percent of  his Facebook shares to charity throughout his lifetime. Right now, those shares  are worth $45 billion.    Never miss my favorite social pic of the day. Set your DVR to record "On the  Record" so you never miss the best Twitted picture of the day. And if you can't  watch live, then play back "On the Record" after you finish watching your other  Fox programs, how about 11:01 each night, that would be a good time.    Thank you for being with us. We'll see you tomorrow night right here at 7:00  p.m. Eastern. And remember, go to Gretawire.com and get all the latest news and  go to my Facebook page, like it, share it. There's a lot going on behind the  scenes on "On the Record." It's all on social media. Up next, the O'Reilly  Factor. Good night from Washington.   
