  
CHRIS WALLACE, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, I'm Chris Wallace, in for Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching this special edition of THE O'REILLY FACTOR, "The  War on Terror". And let's get right to our top story.    And let's get right to our top story: the investigation into the San Bernardino  shooting. Big developments today with the FBI confirming what many have  suspected about the attack.       
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASST. DIR. LOS ANGELES: As of today, based on the information and the facts as we know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as  an act of terrorism.    There are some telephonic connections between these two individuals, at least  one of these individuals and other subjects of our investigation.    I'm aware of the Facebook posts you are mentioning and I saw the same thing you  did. We don't know what's there yet. We are still continuing to look into that.  I know it was in a general timeline where that post was made and yes there was a  pledge of allegiance.    We are not aware of any further threats in the U.S. at this time.       
WALLACE: That means the San Bernardino rampage is now the single deadliest terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11. FBI director James Comey also came out  today to comment on the investigation.       
JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: This is now a federal terrorism investigation led by the FBI. And the reason for that is that the investigation so far has developed  indications of radicalization by the killers and of the potential inspiration by  foreign terrorist organizations.    So far we have no indication that these killers are part of an organized larger  group or form part of a cell. There is no indication that they are part of a  network.    We know this is very unsettling for the people of the United States. But what we  hope you will do is not let fear become disabling but to instead try to channel  it into an awareness of your surroundings, to get you to a place where you are  living your life but if you see something that doesn't make sense, you say  something to somebody.       
WALLACE: Joining us now with more from Los Angeles, is counterterrorism specialist Aaron Cohen; and with me here in Washington Jim Hanson from the  Center for Security Policy.    Gentlemen -- I want to talk about this from a counter terrorism perspective,  which is both of your expertise.    Aaron, I think the biggest question for a lot of people is how a husband and  wife, living in a quiet American town could become so radicalized and assemble  such an enormous arsenal and apparently no one knew. You say that this is what  you would call a modified sleeper cell. Explain that sir.   
AARON COHEN, COUNTERTERRORISM EXPERT: Well, it's -- the modified sleeper cell is a term that I'm using to describe somebody who could potentially become  radicalized meaning using ISIS -- the genius in ISIS is their ability to be able  to use the Internet to connect with would be or potential radicals which means  they don't have to have crossed the threshold, Chris and already be at that  place where they are ready to go commit an act of terror.    But when they do become radicalized like these two did, when they travel  overseas, they go pick up that wife in Saudi Arabia, they end up becoming  indoctrinated. And Saudi Arabia is known, Chris, to have a very strong hard core  Islamic line when it comes to the way that they preach.    You can then tap into that sleeper cell and then exploit that like we saw here.  And provide them with how to attain weapons, how to keep those weapons in their  houses, how to use tactical gear. Put on that gear and then be able to fire  those weapons. And this is all being done on the Internet through secure  databases and blogs.   
WALLACE: Let me bring in Jim Hanson here because I want to talk about the wife. One of the big developments today was the fact that Tashfeen Malik the wife of  Syed Farook apparently pledged allegiance to ISIS and to its leader Abu Bakr al  Baghdadi in the moments before this attack was launched.    One -- what do you make that and two what do you make of reports which don't  seem to be confirmed at this point that she may have radicalized him?   
JIM HANSON, CENTER FOR SECURITY POLICY: I think it is fairly common in incidents like this for someone to make a martyrdom action. In this case she's posting  potentially while he is inside reconning the site of the massacre and she posts  a message pledging allegiance.    They are basically saying we are in the jihad. We are part of the caliphate. We  are part of the global jihad movement.    And I think that's not uncommon. I think you need to look at this. Chris it's  easy for people to understand the violent jihad. Heads get cut off. People get  slaughtered at holiday parties.    But there is a larger civilization jihad that the Muslim Brotherhood is  perpetrating in America. They have a plan. They are using the Muslim student  associations that they formed. They are using mosques where they buy the land  where they import the imams and front groups to go ahead and push that agenda.   
WALLACE: I want to pick up on that with you, Jim. Because you say that the mosques that Farook attended, one of a couple that he attended the Islamic  Center of Riverside, you've raised questions about that and its ties to the  Muslim Brotherhood. What's your point?   
HANSON: The Muslim Brotherhood through a number of front groups, one of which is the North American Islamic Trust has bought property and put in place most of  the mosques in the United States. So they buy them, they set up front groups to  go ahead and get them staffed. They import the imams who do a lot of the  preaching and they bring in the traveling imams.    So this is an operation where they are setting it up to be able to preach jihad  and radicalize people under the cover of religious freedom here in the United  States. It's a cunning plan.   
WALLACE: Aaron, I want to pick up on a question that I think has confused a lot of people and I think it's one of reasons that it took us a couple of days to  come to the conclusion it's terror and not work place violence. Usually in a  terror attack, and correct me if I am wrong, you want to strike in the most  public way in the kind of place that would most terrorize the largest number of  people.    So under those circumstances why strike at a county Department of Public Health  Christmas party where it would raise the possibility it was work place violence  and not terror at all?   
COHEN: Well, my answer, Chris is why not? Soft targets are soft for a reason. You go after what you can get. Al Qaeda is never going to be able to outdo  itself and kill more than the thousands of people that they killed using a plane  as a tactical instrument to be able to crash into a building.    ISIS knows this. So ISIS can tap into this resource again of dormant potentially  radicalized or people that can be radicalized from these sleeper, dormant cells  in these fronts like Mr. Hanson just pointed out and they can attack anywhere  they want. And that's the problem.    And I think the reason, Chris, why the FBI was very cautious in coming out but  they realized they had to say this was terrorism because the implications of the  larger macro-threat that we are facing if we don't look at it from terrorism or  if they don't look at it from terrorism then work backwards Chris, means that we  could potentially be looking at a lot more terrorism.    And so the FBI got smart. And they went hey, let's start framing this thing the  opposite way. A little more the way Israel does it and then start working  backwards from here. There are too many coincidences to not call this what it  could be. I think that was a big move for the FBI.   
WALLACE: So are you suggesting and we're running out of time here that this was political correctness or political pressure that they didn't want to call it  terrorism because that has implications and also talks to the success or failure  of the Obama administration?   
COHEN: Absolutely. I think political correctness is the major security layer that does not exist right now in this country. In Israel we don't have that  luxury. For every minute we waste, an innocent person is going to get killed.  And I think that the political correctness is crushing our ability, Chris, to be  able to realistically insulate this population the way it needs to be so that  these type of dormant attackers who can become radicalized will strike again.    They realized it and they got on camera and they decided that they had to make a  move and get on record with this. So that because they knew that this was a much  larger macroproblem here and, again, the political correctness is definitely the  problem.   
WALLACE: Let me just bring in Jim Hanson for a final question. What do you make of the fact that Farook and his wife apparently smashed their cell phones,  destroyed some of their digital equipment appeared to be trying to cover their  tracks? That isn't always the way terrorists act?    Yes, it's interesting what they might have been trying to cover up, potentially  the fact that the FBI mentioned they were in contact with other folks. So there  may be an act of conspiracy. There may be other folks still involved whether  they were set to do attacks as well.    I think they found out as Hillary Clinton may that you can't destroy all your  digital records. So I hope the FBI is doing an amazing forensic sweep.   
WALLACE: Jim, Aaron -- thank you both.   Next on THE O'REILLY FACTOR special with ISIS influence terrorism apparently  here is it time for President Obama to do a 180 on his strategy to defeat the  terror group? Two top experts will give us their analysis moments away.   
WALLACE: In the "Impact Segment" tonight, President Obama's strategy to fight ISIS. Wednesday's San Bernardino attack delivered yet another blow to his  approach. But the shooting apparently isn't changing the minds of top Obama  administration officials.       
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: Right here in the United States where we have had people, some of them just losers with a keyboard who get excited by  ISIL propaganda and decide to take off against our fellow citizens. So this is  the first ever social media enemy. So it's a -- it's new. Not something we can  defeat but we have to be ingenious.       
WALLACE: Joining us now Ambassador James Woolsey, former director of the CIA; and in New York the "Wall Street Journal's" Bret Stephens.    Bret, let me start with you. You say one of our big problems is that we call  ISIS the Islamic state when we should be calling it the Islamic caliphate. What  difference does that make?   
BRET STEPHENS, "WALL STREET JOURNAL": It's fundamental and it's one of these cases in which the words we use captures or limits our ability to think through  a problem a state is a political entity that has some kind of a border. You can  debate where that border is but it has borders especially when we speak of ISIS,  Islamic state in Iraq and Syria, we are thinking of a state in a particular  regional -- in a particular region.    A caliphate makes claims, makes moral claims on Muslims throughout the world.  Now obviously only a small minority of Muslims think that this self-declared  caliphate has a claim on them. But it means its geographical expanse is  basically universal. It's basically worldwide.    That's one of the reasons we are seeing essentially self-actualized ISIS groups  popping up not only in Europe, North Africa, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Pakistan and,  of course, now most infamously in San Bernardino, California.   
WALLACE: All right. Let me bring in Mr. Woolsey here because if Bret is right and we should properly think of ISIS now and after Paris and a number of these  other attacks it certainly seems to be right as a global threat and not a  regional threat. How does that affect the way we fight them?   
JAMES WOOLSEY, FORMER CIA DIRECTOR: Well, we have to fight them everywhere and we have to I think take them out in their homeland, that's crucial -- the  homeland of the caliphate in Syria and Iraq. And they also have to be fought  here and in Paris and wherever they show up. We can't just kind of rock back and  leave them alone.    I think the caliphate in Muhammad time expanded very, very rapidly and within  100 years of his death it reached from France to today's Pakistan. And that's  what they want. They think they should rule everything that was once ruled by  Muslims and right away.   
WALLACE: Well, Mr. Woolsey let's talk some specifics. The Pentagon announced this week that they are going to add 200 Special Ops Forces, Special Operators  in Iraq to launch raids both in Iraq and in Syria; as opposed to zero, I suppose  that's a good number. But is it anywhere close to what you think we need?   
WOOLSEY: The Special Forces people are amazing but they are not so amazing that 200 can outbalance, can take over a whole country effectively.    We have got a fight here. Petrovsky once said you may not be interested in war  but war may be interested in you. And that's the situation we are in. Our  leader, at least -- our president is not interested in war but war is very much  interested in all of us. And we have got to deal with that.   
WALLACE: Well, so, the question, of course, is how we deal with that Bret. Do we put thousands of U.S. ground troops back on the ground in Iraq and possibly in  Syria?   
STEPHEN: Well, I think you put at least several thousand. We have 3,500 troops right now in Iraq although they are mostly on a training mission. I think you  probably need something in the order of 10,000. But that's a tactical question.  The important point is that you need to deal a decisive psychological blow to  ISIS.    You know, in 2001, bin Laden said there are strong horses and there are weak  horses and people are naturally attracted to the strong horse. And right now  ISIS's great advantage is that to many jihadi-minded Muslims around the world it  looks like the strong horse. And insofar as the United States is fighting this  kind of battle of containment, this battle at the edges and not winning the war  it is only feeding that imagination, feeding that perception of ISIS being a  group that has staying power.    So I think a strategy against ISIS has to begin with the United States  destroying its capital in Raqqa. Taking back Mosul, taking back Ramadi, taking  back Fallujah. Does that mean a long-term occupation? No, not necessarily. But  you don't -- you are not going to achieve this if you are going to try to fight  a war on an installment plan.   
WALLACE: Ok. Let me bring in Mr. Woolsey for one final question.   While the threat is growing quite remarkably the NSA's bulk collection of data  ran out -- you're shaking your head as I say that -- ran out last Sunday. We no  longer have that capability. And I know you have said that you believe that  Edward Snowden the person who released this information has blood on his hands.  How seriously does this hurt us particularly when you are talking about  homegrown threats with the possibility that a fellow like Syed Farook is in  touch with people.   
WOOLSEY: If you work in a company likeand it has huge amount of data for clients. They can tell you what medium you ought to be using to bring a  purchase to a client's attention, when it ought to happen. What will let you buy  something when you are in a store and encourage you to exactly at the right  time. The U.S. government doesn't have anything like that. The commercial world  is far ahead of what Snowden -- where Snowden has left us with respect to being  able to manipulate data and understand how we might zero in on these terrorist  groups.   
WALLACE: Mr. Woolsey, Bret -- thank you both very much for joining us tonight.   Coming up is the homegrown terror threat now a bigger danger than ever following  the San Bernardino massacre?    New Jersey Governor and presidential candidate Chris Christie enters the No Spin  Zone with his plan to stop it. That's next.   
WALLACE: In the "Campaign 2016 Segment" tonight, stopping the homegrown terror threat. The issue took center stage in the Presidential race this week following  the San Bernardino attack. But do any of the candidates have real solutions to  better protect the country?    Joining us now from Jefferson, Iowa presidential candidate and New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie.    Governor, during a speech at the Republican Jewish Coalition this week, you said  that we are in the midst, your words, of the next world war. But talk to us in  practical terms specifically, what does that mean we should be doing  differently?   
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, first off, Chris, what we need to do is reverse the decision that was made this past summer regarding  the NSA's ability to collect metadata. We have weakened our intelligence  capability through that and we need to reverse that.    And we need to support our intelligence community and our law enforcement  community to intervene and to give them the tools they need to be able to do  that. And that's not just actual tools. It's also giving them the support and  guidance that they need to be able to do that the right way.    Then we need to go and put together as I have said before, a coalition of both  NATO allies and of Arab allies to be able to fight ISIS. We need to disrupt  their financial networks, their oil flow. Those are all things that are  practical things that we did with al Qaeda in the immediate aftermath of 2001  attack and we need to get back to that.   
WALLACE: I want to talk to you more specifically about the homeland. One of the things that you have been talking about is keeping all, all Syrian refugees out  of the country. But as we saw in San Bernardino, the threat from homegrown  terrorists is a more immediate threat than any foreign people coming into the  country which raises the question, if you were president, commander-in-chief  today, what would you do to detect, to find out and to stop someone like Syed  Farook who was an American citizen?   
CHRISTE: Well, first thing, Chris, is that, you know, no one else in this race has the experience that I do in terms of having spent seven years in the  immediate aftermath of 9/11 using the Patriot Act, using the FISA court, using  the tools that are necessary to be able to intervene in both the Fort Dick 6  case and the Hemant Lakhani where we successfully intervened before attacks  happened. We were able to prosecute, convict, then send to jail all of those  terrorists.    And we would use those very same tools. We would make sure that we have a  bolstered and strong Patriot Act. We'd make sure that we are giving the  resources that the FBI, other law enforcement, CIA and NSA need to be able to  intervene.    The only way to deal with this problem at home, Chris, is to get as much  intelligence as possible, connect the dots and try to intervene beforehand. I  want to be clear. It doesn't mean you're going to be able to stop every attack.    And I want to take issue with one thing you said in your question. I don't think  that the attacks in San Bernardino mean that the threat from within is worse  than the threat from outside. They're both bad and they both need to be dealt  and intelligence and law enforcement capability is the number one way to protect  the homeland.   
WALLACE: There is a new poll that is out, that was completed just before the San Bernardino attacks. And I want to put this up on the screen and discuss it with  you.    In the CNN national survey Donald Trump now leads at 36 percent -- that's more  than double anyone else in the field. You are running fifth at 4 percent and  specifically on the issue of fighting terrorists -- on fighting ISIS rather --  Trump is at 46 percent. You are running sixth at 4 percent.    My question is: what do you make of his strength and of your standing when the  issue specifically is when it comes to protecting the country?   
CHRISTIE: You know, Chris, we have talked about this in all the time I have been on "FOX NEWS SUNDAY". These national polls are just meaningless. What really  matters is what is happening in Iowa and New Hampshire. That's what is going to  define this race ultimately. We have got the Iowa caucuses in less than 60 days.  We have got the New Hampshire primary in less than 70 days. Those are the polls  that really matter. Those are the races that really matter.    And as have you known and seen over the course of your career, if the results in  Iowa or New Hampshire are in any way inconsistent with what those national polls  are today those national poll will change overnight.   
WALLACE: President Obama has said that one of his foreign policy principles is "don't do stupid stuff". In an interview that was published today in the  "Atlantic" you say that in pursuit of that policy, that President Obama, quote,  "has done a lot of stupid stuff", although you used a rougher word than that.  When you say stupid stuff by this president such as?   
CHRISTIE: As did the President, by the way. You know, the saying inside there in the White House according to all the reports is that they used the rougher  language, too, Chris. So I was repeating the President's rough language.    The fact is this. When you promise to take action in Syria, if they violate a  red line, of not using chemical weapons against their people and then you don't  act you diminish America's influence and credibility abroad. When you sign a  ridiculous agreement with the Iranians regarding nuclear weapons that the  Iranians are not even following at this point, that is something that's not  smart to do. When you put distance between ourselves and Israel as the President  has done both through his actions and his rhetoric, that makes the region more  unstable. And when you put distance between ourselves and our Sunni Arab allies  because of your flirtation with Iran who's still chanting death to America and  guaranteeing that Israel will be wiped off the map in 25 years that seems pretty  stupid to me, too.   
WALLACE: Governor Christie, we're going to have to leave it there. Thank you so much. Thanks for your time tonight.   
CHRISTIE: Chris, thank you for the opportunity. It's good to see you. Have a nice weekend.   
WALLACE: Thank you. Same to you.   Up next with those new polls showing Donald Trump surging ahead, will his tough  talk on terror strengthen his grip on the Republican nomination? Stay tuned.   
PATRICIA STARK, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: This is a FOX News alert. I'm Patricia Stark. The woman who helped her husband carry out Wednesday's massacre in San  Bernardino, California posted her allegiance to ISIS on Facebook. Now, that's  according to the Feds who also said today Tashfeen Malik and her husband Syed  Farook tried to cover their tracks. All the evidence piling up led to this from  the FBI.       
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI LOS ANGELES ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: Based on the information and the facts as we know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as an  act of terrorism.       
STARK: That means Wednesday's attack in which 14 people were killed would be the deadliest terror attack on American soil since 9/11. The FBI, however, not  discussing whether anyone affiliated with the Islamic State communicated  directly with the killers who were gunned down by authorities. I'm Patricia  Stark and now back to THE O'REILLY FACTOR.   
CHRIS WALLACE, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: In THE FACTOR "Follow-Up" segment tonight, terrorism in the 2016 campaign. As we said, a new CNN poll completed just before  the San Bernardino shooting had some good news for Donald Trump. Trump now has  the support of 36 percent of Republican voters. That's 20 points ahead of  Senator Ted Cruz, who is second at 16 percent. Dr. Ben Carson 14 percent.  Followed by Senator Marco Rubio at 12. The remaining candidates in single  digits. Tough talk on terrorism like this from Trump is apparently appealing to  GOP voters.       
BILL O'REILLY, HOST, "THE O'REILLY FACTOR": You have got to define, take out their families, what does that mean?   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Bill, Bill. Do you think the wives and the families knew exactly what was going to happen with September 11th?   
O'REILLY: I don't know.  
TRUMP: I do and I know they did. Well, I do, I think they did.  
O'REILLY: So, when you say take out though. What does take out mean?  
TRUMP: You have to do what Israel was doing for a period of time. Take out means that you have to wipe out their homes where they came from. You have to  absolutely wipe them out. It's the only way you are going to stop terrorism.       
WALLACE: Joining us now with reaction from New York, Real Clear Politics reporter Caitlin Huey-Burns along with Philip Bump from "The Washington Post"  who is covering the Trump campaign. Caitlin, let me start with you and those  poll numbers, 36 percent of the national poll, 46 percent specifically comes to  fighting ISIS. Do you think that is a reaction? Trump's rise to the increased  focus on terror?   
CAITLIN HUEY-BURNS, REAL CLEAR POLITICS NATIONAL REPORTER: I do think so. And it actually runs counter to what many of us thought would happen in this campaign  after the terrorist attacks put a more of a focus on national security and  foreign policy issues. Many thought that candidates like Marco Rubio or Ted Cruz  or others, Chris Christie who have made this a focal point of their campaign  would be able to rise. And we haven't seen that be the case. We have seen a  decrease, however, in Ben Carson's numbers. But Donald Trump has been talking  this way very aggressively. And I think his supporters are responding to that.   
WALLACE: Let me pick up on that, Philip, because a lot of the so- called experts thought, you know, if this became a focus on the commander- and-chief primary if  you will, who is the best person to protect the country? People would be  looking. Voters would be looking for someone with foreign policy experience. It  seems that what they are responding to is Trump's tough talk.   
PHILIP BUMP, POLITICS REPORTER, "WASHINGTON POST": Yes, I think that's right. I think that's right. I mean, Trump has been very aggressive since he started his  campaign on immigration, on terrorism, and I think that that resonates. So, you  know, he hasn't been terribly specific in what he is going to do about it. But,  you know, just talking tough, I think it's helpful. I will say though that I  think part of the issue with these recent polls is that decline from Ben Carson.  I think the fact that Ben Carson dropped off a lot. I think we could have seen  that coming because he wasn't viewed as being very strong on foreign policy.  Yes. I think that helped Cruz. I think it helped Trump. And the Trump numbers on  terrorism, not as good for examples as his numbers on the economy. So, I think  it's not as strong a poll for Trump as you might suspect.   
WALLACE: So you think, in effect, Philip, that he is winning -- in other words, he is picking out the outside or none of the above vote that some of the Carson  people have.   
BUMP: Yes, I think that's right. I think that Carson drop-off has been mutually beneficial for both Trump and Cruz.   
WALLACE: You know, as Philip says, well, maybe this is going to begin to fade, Caitlin, you know, I have to think that a lot of us have kept saying well, back  in June or July or August, you know, it's a summer fling and the Trump support  will fade. We're now less than two months, considerably less than two months  away from the actual voting starting at the Iowa caucuses. It's not fading.  Trump's lead is growing.   
HUEY-BURNS: It's certainly not. He actually just hit his highest point in polling ever in our Real Clear Politics polling average. And we do still have  two months to go. There are still voters undecided. But the time is really  running out, quite frankly. And the fact is that the other -- none of these  other candidates show any signs of backing out. So there isn't really going to  be a consolidation around a Trump alternative. Any time soon. So I project this  to continue on at least through Iowa and New Hampshire and we will see, you  know, how the other candidates address this by either staying in the race or  dropping out or, you know, whether the party gets more involved here. We're not  sure.   
WALLACE: Philip, are you prepared to say at this point that Donald Trump can win the Republican nomination?   
HUEY-BURNS: Oh, yes. He absolutely can win it. I'm not prepared to say, at least he is going to win it. You know, I think the points just made were very strong  points. I will just add that as -- 538, very strong point. Two thirds of the  people made up their minds in Iowa did so a month before Election Day. Three  quarters almost in New Hampshire in 2012. So, that's a lot of last-minute  decision making. Trump is anomaly, who knows what happens. But certainly it  indicates that there's still a lot of people here that's going to make up their  minds closer to election.   
WALLACE: I would just point out one last thing. And that is the fact that when you ask various people who, you know, who support various candidates, how strong  is their support? Trump supporters are the most committed.    Caitlin, Philip, thanks both of you.    Calls are growing for an overhaul that U.S. visa and refugee programs that could  allow potential terrorists into the country. But will Democrats try to put a  stop to it? That debate when this O'REILLY FACTOR Special returns.   
WALLACE: Thanks for watching this Special Edition of THE O'REILLY FACTOR. "The War on Terror." I'm Chris Wallace in for Bill O'Reilly. And in the "Unresolved  Problem" segment tonight, how to stop terrorists from entering the U.S.? The San  Bernardino attack is sparking calls for tougher visa and refugee restrictions  after it was discovered the female shooter was allowed into this country on  what's called a fiance visa in 2014. A major standoff between President Obama  and Congressional Republicans is now brewing over that issue.       
LAURA INGRAHAM, RADIO HOST, LAURA INGRAHAM SHOW: Tell me if I'm misstating it. He is such a fanatic, Senator, that he is willing to shut the government down to  keep the flow of the Muslim refugees coming. Fanatical. That's a fanatical deal.   
SEN. JEFF SESSIONS, ALABAMA: And the Republicans wants that explained to the American people. I think they'll overwhelmingly blame the President correctly  for refusing to deal with this crisis.       
WALLACE: Joining us now from New York immigration Attorney Michael Wildes along with Mike Gallagher, a FOX News contributor and radio talk show host. So, Mr.  Wilds the wife in this case Tashfeen Malik came into the U.S. on what's called a  K-1 visa, foreign fiancee of an American citizen who intends to get married  within 90 days. How much screening is involved in that?   
MICHAEL WILDES, MANAGING PARTNER, WILDES AND WEINBERG PC: Tremendous amount of screening. Thank you, Chris, for having me on. There are biometrics. There are  all sorts of bona fides of the legitimacy of the marriage since the 1980s and  `90s when there were Russian mail order brides. The State Department correct  that. It takes you effectively about nine months, you need to get police  clearances from every country ever lived in for more than six months. And that's  where we have a blind spot. Somebody who visits Syria or Saudi Arabia for a few  weeks or months and becomes radicalize might slip through the cracks. But nobody  is getting a K-1 visa with the prayer of getting in after being vetted by State  Department consular officials. Almost a year later, if only there are easier  ways to sneak into this country with our porous borders.   
WALLACE: Let me bring in Mike Gallagher at this point. Mike, that is a lot more screening than a lot of people coming into this country get -- we will get into  that in a moment. Would you end the K-1 visa?   
MIKE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Listen, Chris, I'm not sure the American people are interested in the nuances of the K-1 visa program. You know the  government says that strict and vigorous screening procedures are in place for  immigrants, for refugees. This is precisely why there has been such push back  over the Syrian refugee issue. Americans are compassionate but that doesn't mean  we are stupid. And that doesn't mean that you are going to leave the door wide  open or not ask about the identity of somebody who is coming on the door.    And at the end of the day the only solution to this is a political solution.  It's why Donald Trump is fairing so well because of his tough talk on  immigration. He has done it from day one. And that's why you know, he was  enjoying such success. The American people are fed up. We have a president last  night who was saying, listen, we are looking at this still as a possibility of  work place violence. You have got to be kidding me. This has to change. And  there is going to be a see change.   
WALLACE: There is a much bigger hole in the system. Much bigger than the refugees, much bigger than K-1 and that's the visa waiver in which people from a  bunch of countries, dozens of countries especially in Europe can come into this  country without any screening at all. Isn't that a much bigger problem?   
WILDES: Up to 90 days, they can come in on a visa waiver. Look, our founding fathers were facing sedition and pirates on the high seas. We seem to react now  to shoe bombers and underwear bombers and now the radicalization on the women's  side of the ledger. We cannot be facing, responding to terrorism. America like  the state of Israel really has to be out there first and ferreted out this  cancer and stop it. But the visa waiver, I'm sorry, Mike -- the visa waiver  program, we have curtailed business. We have U.S. marines -- anybody getting K-1  visas.   
WALLACE: I get the point and let me ask Gallagher about that because, you know, there are millions of tourists who come from those countries under the visa  waiver. You're going to just shut the door.   
GALLAGHER: You can't shut the door but there is nothing wrong with greater scrutiny. That's why Senator Cruz is asking for full disclosure about the path  that this woman took to come into the United States. All Republican candidates  are asking for is scrutiny. Deeper scrutiny and a more sophisticated way to say,  we are not going to have open borders. Let's face it. There are a lot of Liberal  Democrats who are in favor of open borders. So, how you can expect more scrutiny  on somebody who comes in on a K-1 visa. We have got to have a mindset. See  change. And has to happen politically. That's the only way we are going to solve  this thing.   
WALLACE: And Mr. Wildes, very quickly. About 30 seconds. You know, one of the problems people say is, garbage in, garbage out. You can have all of those  screening in the world, the problem particularly about Syrian refugees. But as  you pointed out yourself, if there is no database of those no reliable  information. Screening isn't going to work.   
WILDES: You are right, Chris. And the sad thing is that there isn't the seamlessness, whether it's our intelligence services military or otherwise, we  need to be that proactive on this issue. Immigration is the fuel of our economy.  The family reunification and the very reason our founding fathers came here. We  can't allow these terrorists to stop us from doing this.   
WALLACE: Gentlemen, we are going to have to leave it there Mike, Mr. Wildes, thank you both very much.    And a quick reminder, as you may know, Bill O'Reilly gives a lot of money to  charity and as he always says at the end of the show it's because of you the  viewer. So, please go to Bill O'Reilly.com. Buy gifts for Christmas and  Hanukkah. We hope everyone does that this weekend. Including Bill's big  bestseller "Killing Reagan."    When we come back, the media is invited into the home of the San Bernardino  killers by their landlord. What was discovered inside? Stay tuned.   
WALLACE: In the "Personal Story" segment tonight, going inside the home of the San Bernardino killers. In one of the most bizarre developments yet, the home's  landlord gave a surprise invitation to the media today to come in and check it  out. Everything from the Islamic books of prayer to toys for the couple's  six-month-old daughter. Identification cards and family photos were still  inside.    Joining us now with more from San Bernardino, FOX News correspondent Adam  Housley. Adam, all of us saw in the video today, of reporters crawling all over  each other with their cameras, taking pictures of this crime scene. I know the  FBI says that they have completed their investigation of the house that that  couple were renting, but no evidence from the crime scene that was still needed  by the investigators?   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: No. They say no evidence at all. In fact I got that from not only the local folks here, they have been doing this  investigation. But also the national people. They say as crazy as it looks, and  obviously they can't determine how the media covers it, but they say, listen, we  went through this place with everything inch by inch. We got a lot of  information out of there. We needed nothing else in there. And this is normal  for us to hand it back over to the homeowner when we're completely done with it.   
WALLACE: The evidence was clearly leading in that direction. And you're reporting the last day or so, certainly was leading in that direction. I have to  say though, I thought it was pretty dramatic today when the lead FBI person on  the investigation out there in San Bernardino said, they are now the FBI is  investigating this as an act of terrorism.   
HOUSLEY: Yes. You know, I could tell you from early on, Chris, they thought it was an act of terrorism. They've been saying that to us here on the ground. They  said they don't want to worry about the terminology coming from Washington. They  don't want to worry about the investigation. But they've been wanting to call it  that. We got tipped off yesterday at about 7:00 p.m. that he would come out  today and say that. It was supposed to be a new local press conference and they  changed it to 11:00 a.m. because the national Director Comey was coming out to  speak on something else. And it ended up being on this as well. And so kind of  interesting how it happened, Chris. But I'll tell you that, I thought it was  dramatic as well. Even though we knew here on the ground, it's been going this  way from the beginning. It is very dramatic when you hear that. When you hear  the guy in charge say, this is terrorism.   
WALLACE: Has the mood there changed at all since that announcement Adam in the sense that you know, if it is workplace violence, it is terrible, but if  somebody else's problem. If it is a terrorist cell, even if it's those two  people, there is always a question, is there somebody else out there and is  there going to be another attack? How do people in the neighborhood feel?   
HOUSLEY: I don't think people here have changed the feeling. I mean, they've been tense. I mean, obviously once the two were killed in that shootout we  covered a couple of days ago, once that happened, the energy did relax a little  bit. But people here knew what this was. I think a lot of people in the country  knew what this was. We also, I also can tell you, there's been a debate in  Washington behind the scenes about what to call this. There was pressure at one  point, Chris, to call this workplace violence that caused terrorism, believe it  or not. That that was actually part of a debate behind the scenes. So people  here on the ground knew what it was. I mean, when you're here, you feel it, you  know it, and you hear the reporting from here on the ground and also the  investigators are all over this place. As you might imagine, there is a massive  presence of investigation work going on, not only here in Redlands but also San  Bernardino and really across the region -- Chris.   
WALLACE: And our final 30 seconds, Adam, I assume that this weekend now that we have a better sense of what caused this, that some of the focus will return to  burying the dead. Those 14 people who lost their lives.   
HOUSLEY: Yes, you know, here are some amazing stories. You know, one woman that actually kind of knows my brother in an indirect way, she was the only one that  survived at her table that was at that event. I mean, you are hearing those  types of things, along with the families that are having to remember their loved  ones as they put them, lay them to rest. Knowing that this is now a terrorist  attack officially. Obviously this community has come together like a lot of  communities do but they also know that they are in the middle of arguably what  is the most important event. As one of the FBI agents said to me, Adam, this is  a game-changer.   
WALLACE: Adam, thank you. Thank you for your reporting and for your insight.   Straight ahead, a powerful look at the lives of some of those 14 people who lost  their lives in the San Bernardino shooting. And we'll be right back with that.   
WALLACE: In the "Back of the Book" segment tonight, remembering the victims of the San Bernardino shooting. Tonight we take a look at some powerful images from  news coverage around the nation of those 14 innocent lives taken in just a  matter of moments on Wednesday.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Probably the worst day of my life. Not knowing how to tell your kids that daddy's not coming home.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They range in age from 26 to 60. Fathers, mothers, the cousin of a New York Giants player, and police officers wife who fled Islamic  extremism in Iran.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What's the best thing about your wife you will going to remember?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Everything. She was an angel.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Twenty seven-year-old Yvette Velasco's uncle said his niece was one of four sisters.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They are very close family. Very tight knit family.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Shannon Johnson, Aurora Godoy, Sierra Clayborn.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One of Sierra's Clayborn's photos is covered in blue, white and red, a tribute to the victims of last month's Paris massacre. A message  beneath the photo reads, even as you go, your picture is out of love for victims  elsewhere.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Jennifer Thalasinos says her husband Nicholas, worked with Syed.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I feel he was martyred. And I just know he is in a better place.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He had this grin that made it look like he was up to something.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When things were starting to get to you, Daniel would show up and it was like --   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He would pull some stunt and make you laugh.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The world will suffer from having one less person like him.      
WALLACE: A total of eight men and six women died in the attack. Our thoughts and prayers are with their families. And that's it for us tonight. Thanks for  watching this special edition of THE O'REILLY FACTOR. Also, be sure to catch  "fox News Sunday" this weekend on FOX broadcast in the morning and replays on  FOX News Channel.    I'm Chris Wallace in for Bill O'Reilly. And please remember, the spin stops  here. Because as always, we're looking out for you.   
