  
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: All right, the theory goes something like this. This crackdown on ISIS has killed a lot of members of ISIS. In fact, they`re getting  gunned down and bombed out so fast that we have fewer of them to worry about, so  maybe we don`t have to worry as much about ISIS.    Well, on paper, it makes sense, but retired Four-Star General Jack Keane doesn`t  look at things on paper. He looks at life in reality.    And, General, you`re just not buying this notion that fewer of ISIS means, A,  fewer of ISIS, or, for that matter, that ISIS is no longer a problem, huh?   
GEN. JACK KEANE, FORMER U.S. ARMY VICE CHIEF OF STAFF: No, most of this reporting is anecdotal.    And we certainly want it to be true, that we have lost thousands of ISIS  fighters, a number of them are defecting, et cetera. But the -- that`s not the  way we look at an adversarial organization. We want to look at their ability to  command and control. We want to look at their tactical and operational  initiative, the territory that they control, how much.    Have they gained, lost, or are they holding what they got? Resiliency, their  ability to recruit, their financial support and funding. All of those things is  the way you look at an organization comprehensively.    Unfortunately, we are not doing that to the degree that we used to do before  this allegation came that -- at CENTCOM and now we have an investigation taking  place. And that`s a sad commentary.   
CAVUTO: You know, General, I remember that a lot of these terrorist groups are like cockroaches. You take out one or some, and many more come in and replace  it.    And I`m wondering if the same applies to ISIS, and we don`t appreciate the  magnitude of that, and now the latest from Angela Merkel in Germany is that many  of these refugees themselves from Syria descending in Europe, many of those  elements are there.   
KEANE: Yes. Well, there`s no doubt about it.   One of the attributes that ISIS has had -- and that`s why resiliency and ability  to recruit are important indicators for this organization. I don`t doubt that we  have killed thousands of them. I don`t think we should be counting those  numbers, because I think it can be very misleading unintentionally.    And the truth is, in the last year, despite the killing of ISIS that`s taken  place, they have essentially sustained the size of their organization. Now,  whether we are having actually more impact now, time will be able to tell us,  because it will impact your ability to control territory. It will impact your  ability to take the initiative.    And we will start to see this organization begin to shrink. But this information  we have now, Neil, it is anecdotal. It is not systemic, comprehensive analysis,  and we can`t run off and make a lot of conclusions based on it.   
CAVUTO: And nor should we just dismiss the possibility that all of these developments have actually helped recruiting for ISIS. Right?   
KEANE: Oh, there`s no doubt about it.   The Paris attack certainly contributes to that. It gives them this -- again,  this just aura of success and this sense of invincibility. The second thing,  obviously, the migration and the refugees, as you suggest, is playing into their  hands.    Remember, what ISIS wants in Europe, they actually want to polarize and fragment  the Muslim and non-Muslim communities. They want an overreaction against Muslims  to appeal to their sense of grievance and alienation that take place. So some of  this migration and refugee issue is playing right into ISIS` hands.   
CAVUTO: All right, General, thank you. Always good seeing you.  
KEANE: Yes. Good talking to you, Neil.  
CAVUTO: All right.  
