      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She had noticed they had been, I guess, receiving packages, quite a few packages within a short amount of time, and that they were actually  doing a lot of work in the garage. And she was kind of suspicious and was  wanting to report it, but she said, "I didn`t" -- she didn`t want to profile.       
NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: All right, that was a friend of a neighbor saying that -- you know, that, look, that she had been noticing for a while that Syed Rizwan Farook  and Tashfeen Malik were often up very late, receiving packages and doing  something.    She did not want to call police, though, because she would look racist, I guess,  and that she was profiling.    Former D.C. Detective Rod Wheeler on what he -- what he makes of that.    What do you think, Rod?   
ROD WHEELER, FOUNDER, ROD WHEELER & ASSOCIATES: You know, Neil, it`s unfortunate, but one of the things that the community has to do is to support  the police.    And the way you support the police is by, if you see something, you say  something. But I have to admit, I talk to a lot of people, Neil, and they will  tell me, you know, Rod, I`m afraid to say anything because I will feel like I`m  profiling.    Look, we are living in -- during a time of war, Neil, and we can`t worry so much  about profiling. Maybe, just maybe, if this neighbor would have profiled a  little bit, and just called the cops, then maybe this thing would have been  avoided yesterday, but, obviously, that did not happen.   
CAVUTO: You know, Rod -- and you`re a former police -- would the cops have reacted that way?    I mean, her -- she would be anonymous. And so they might say, we have got a nut  on the phone here who is profiling or whatever. But even in that worst-case  scenario, which I don`t see, wouldn`t they check it out anyway?   
WHEELER: They would have checked it out, absolutely. And that was my point.   And here`s the thing. The government has come out with a number of programs such  as the First Observer Plus program, where they`re trying to really, really get  people to call them, call a number, let somebody know.    The thing is, this woman -- and this is so important, Neil -- she saw several  men coming and going from this what we now are calling an IED factory, right?  And she really was worried about something, but she didn`t say anything else.    But here`s the question. Who else saw that, that did not call? Apparently, no  one saw that and called. So, again, you know, we can`t emphasize enough, we  meaning law enforcement, we can`t emphasize enough how much it would really help  us if citizens would just give us a call, remain anonymous, because we do have  ways of checking individuals out.   
CAVUTO: But you mentioned something else, as you always do, and very pointedly so, this idea that there were other men and they were all involved in the garage  doing something. That -- that makes me think, all right, there were other  culprits if that`s true. And where are they?       
WHEELER: Well, you know what? That`s right.   And you know what I have been saying all day, Neil. I know we don`t have a lot  of time, but I have been walking around this entire area out here in San  Bernardino. I do believe -- and I don`t have any concrete evidence to support  this at this point -- but I do believe that the investigators are looking at  more individuals now other than just the two individuals yesterday, not so much  for actually conducting the shooting.    But I think these two people yesterday had the support of a small circle of  individuals who gave them assistance, because, when you look at the way the home  was booby-trapped, that one guy and that woman, they didn`t do it by themselves.  They had to have some help, Neil.   
CAVUTO: All right.  
WHEELER: So, again, if you just stay tuned, if you stay tuned, I think we are going to hear about more arrests coming soon.   
CAVUTO: Amazing, all right, as you were, Rod, at this coverage and analyzing things.    I appreciate it, Rod Wheeler.   
WHEELER: Sure.  
