  
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: San Bernardino, California is now the site of the single deadliest terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11/2001. We  have breaking details from the FBI's newly designated terrorism investigation.    This is SPECIAL REPORT.    Good evening. Welcome to Washington. I'm Bret Baier.    The FBI is admitting what President Obama has gone to considerable effort not to  that evidence in the killing of 14 people at a San Bernardino, California  Christmas lunch Wednesday points to terrorism.    We now know from authorities, that the woman involved in the shootings pledged  allegiance to ISIS and that she and her husband tried to destroy any evidence of  communications that could shed light on their communications with others or  motivation after abandoning their six-month- old child before taking part in the  attack together.    We have Fox Team coverage tonight: James Rosen at the White House with a look at  President Obama's reluctance to attribute this and other incidents to terrorism;  Howard Kurtz here in Washington with a media circus at the home of the shooters  today. But we begin again tonight with senior correspondent Adam Housley in San  Bernardino.    Hi -- Adam.   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Hi -- Bret.   As you mentioned, the big development out of here today was the FBI coming out  and officially announcing that they're investigating this as a possible act of  terrorism. As they continue to investigate this attack we're learning more about  the backgrounds of the suspects and the planning that went into Tuesday's  rampage.    We've also heard from the suspects' families through their attorneys just  moments ago. They insist they knew nothing about what was happening and  insinuating the FBI is calling this a possible act of terrorism due to religious  reasons.       
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI: As of today based on the information and the facts as we know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as an act of terrorism.   
HOUSLEY: Two days after Wednesday's deadly shooting, the investigation now officially in the hands of the FBI.   
BOWDICH: We have uncovered evidence that has led us to learn of extensive planning; obviously we've uncovered evidence of explosives, multiple armaments  --   
HOUSLEY: Evidence that authorities tell us includes a Facebook post where Tashfeen Malik pledged her allegiance to ISIS and its leader just moments before  the massacre. It was removed by Facebook and reported to law enforcement.   
BOWDICH: I'm aware of the Facebook post you're mentioning. And I saw the same thing you did. We don't know what's there yet. We're still continuing to look  into that.   
HOUSLEY: Investigators say the couple also tried to erase their digital footprint by damaging personal devices.   
BOWDICH: The cell phones were -- were actually crushed. We have retained those cell phones and we do continue to exploit the data from those cell phones. We do  hope that the digital fingerprints that were left by these two individuals will  take us towards their motivation.   
HOUSLEY: FBI director James Comey also making a statement as there is apparently friction between the FBI and the White House on how to characterize this attack.   
JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: The investigation so far has developed indications of radicalization by the killers and of potential inspiration by foreign terrorist  organizations.   
HOUSLEY: Lives that appeared normal as we get our first look inside the apartment of Malik and her husband Syed Farook. The home already cleared as a  crime scene contained furniture, baby items, documents, family photos and  several copies of the Koran. The owner says Farook passed a background check and  paid the rent on time.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No problems whatsoever.  
HOUSLEY: And the complete chaos of that day coming to light from those who arrived first on the scene.   
LT. MICHAEL MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: It was unspeakable the carnage that we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and unfortunately already  dead. And the pure panic on the face of those individuals that were still in  need and needing to be safe.       
HOUSLEY: Bret, the State Department said today they stand behind their screening process that Tashfeen went through in Pakistan for visas and have no plans to  make any changes in light of this week's events -- Bret.   
BAIER: You know, Adam, we heard FBI director James Comey say that they probably are not part of a cell. At least there's no evidence of that yet. There are a  lot of questions, though, about how they got the money to get all of this stuff.   
HOUSLEY: Right. Agents very early on have said they don't believe they had the money themselves to do this. They believe there are outside influences. They  won't tell me if that's here domestically or internationally. I do have one  agent say they do believe the trail leads outside the country and wouldn't go  any further. So they are following that path -- Bret. Obviously if they can nail  that down, it will definitely give us an insight into how they were able to do  this but also who they were connected to -- Bret.   
BAIER: Ok. We'll follow every step of the way. Adam -- thank you.   Let's talk more now about the media invasion of the shooters' home. Fox News  media analyst and host of Fox's "MEDIA BUZZ" Howie Kurtz is here tonight. Howie,  I mean this is 50 hours after the attack. Have you ever seen anything like this?   
HOWARD KURTZ, FOX NEWS MEDIA ANALYST: I really haven't -- Bret. And former homicide detective and Fox contributor Rod Wheeler tells me he hasn't either. I  know the FBI said today it was done with the apartment and didn't object. But  this is extremely unusual to let a gang of reporters just rummage through the  place, especially in such a high-profile case of mass murder.    Meanwhile the tabloid show "Inside Edition" declined to comment today when we  asked about a report that it had paid $1,000 to the landlord for the earliest  access to that apartment.   
BAIER: So how did the networks handle.  
KURTZ: Well, CNN delayed its live coverage of it. It was careful in what it showed. Fox News initially had trouble with its live feed and also took a  cautious approach.    But MSNBC plunged right in. Its reporter showing the teddy bear of the couple's  baby, family photos with other children in them. And even one relative's  driver's license with all the identifying information right there. This, while  anchor Andrea Mitchell kept urging the reporter to be more cautious.   
BAIER: Yes. What was driving all this, do you think?  
KURTZ: Obviously in television, nobody wants to be ten seconds behind the other guy but there's intense public interest in this case as you know and all the  unanswered questions about the killer's motivation and possible ties to ISIS.  But for a journalist to just be holding up personal items and baby toys without  checking them out first seemed rather ghoulish and Bret, late this afternoon  MSNBC issuing a statement, "We regret that we briefly showed images of  photographs and identification cards that should not have been aired without  review".   
BAIER: And the family's lawyers mentioned this event late this afternoon as well.   
KURTZ: Indeed.  
BAIER: Howie -- thank you.  
KURTZ: Thanks.  
BAIER: President Obama's press secretary took pains today to avoid attributing the shootings to terrorism. Tonight chief Washington correspondent, James Rosen  looks at why the President has been so reluctant to acknowledge what the FBI  made plain.       
JAMES ROSEN, FOX NEWS CHIEF WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Right up until the FBI announced that it is processing the San Bernardino case as an act of terrorism,  the White House declined to call it that, citing in part the need for more  information.   
JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: What it looks like is people who were obviously intent on carrying out a terrible act of violence. I think it will  require a careful examination of the facts that are collected and better insight  into what their intent may have been.   
ROSEN: The White House hedged its bets however by disclosing that President Obama's top counterterrorism adviser, Lisa Monaco, had participated in his  morning briefing on the shootings. Critics see a pattern, where the Obama  administration has been slow to recognize terrorism or call it that.    In 2009, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano famously labeled terrorist  acts "man-caused disasters". The Pentagon termed the Fort Hood massacre an  instance of workplace violence.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And as we have more information, we'll let the public know.   
ROSEN: And in July the President declined to categorize mass casualty attacks at two military installations in Chattanooga again leaving it to the FBI to call it  terrorism.    More broadly the President has refused to use the words "radical Islam",  "Islamist" or "jihad" in describing the greater challenge from terrorism,  preferring instead the term "violent extremism".   
REP. PETER KING, NEW YORK: Well first when the President of the United Stateshe knows is an enemy and the enemy is Islamic jihad --   
EARNEST: The fact that our harshest critics that best criticism that they can come up with is to criticize what the President says I think is a pretty strong  endorsement of all the actions that the President has take to keep the country  safe.       
ROSEN: Up to now the White House had wanted the attorney general and the director of the FBI to take the lead role in making public pronouncements on the  San Bernardino case. However, officials here tell me tonight that President  Obama will speak out again and soon on these attacks and will address them  squarely as acts of terrorism -- Bret.   
BAIER: James Rosen, live on the north lawn. James -- thank you.   The Los Angeles head of a major Muslim advocacy group is blaming the U.S. for  Islamic terror. This is the director of the Los Angeles Chapter of the Council  on American-Islamic Relations this morning.       
HUSSAM AYLOUSH, CAIR LOS ANGELES: We support coupleaders in Egypt or other places, we support dictatorships, repressive regimes around the world that push  people over to the edge then they become extremists, then they become terrorists  -- we are partly responsible.    So terrorism is a global problem, not a Muslim problem. And the solution has to  be global. Everybody has a role in it.       
BAIER: Hussam Ayloush says 95 percent of the victims of ISIS are Muslims.   Up next a new breakdown: the 2016 Republican race takes an interesting turn --  we'll have that.    First here's what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are covering  tonight. Fox 21 in Colorado Springs with the funeral of the campus police  officer killed a week ago during the Planned Parenthood shootings. Garrett  Swasey rushed to the clinic from his duty post at the University of Colorado at  Colorado Springs, two civilians were also killed. The suspected gunman is in  custody.    Fox 5 in New York where Amazon plans to schedule workers on staggered shifts  after the Mayor of Robbinsville, New Jersey threatened to shut down the busiest  warehouse on the planet. That's what Amazon calls its fulfillment center there.  One resident previously said it could take up to 40 minutes to drive less than a  mile.    And this is a live look at Orlando, Florida from Fox 35. The big story there  tonight, another scrub in launch plans for unmanned supply mission to the  International Space Station. Weather forced the postponement for a second day in  a row.    That's tonight's live look outside the Beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be  right back.   
BAIER: Donald Trump and Ted Cruz are up; Ben Carson and Jeb Bush are down in the latest major poll in the Republican presidential race. Chief political  correspondent Carl Cameron tells us tonight how just about everything appears to  be going right for the billionaire candidate.       
CARL CAMERON, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: With eight weeks to the first votes, Donald Trump's conventional wisdom-defying lead in the polls is  growing. Trump has hit a new high -- 36 percent in the latest CNN poll. Doubling  Ted Cruz, who surged to 16 and holds a slight lead within the poll's 4.5 percent  margin of error and is in a virtual three-way tie with Ben Carson, who slid to  14 percent and Marco Rubio at 12 percent. The rest of the field is under 5  percent.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I know. I know what you're saying.  
CAMERON: Trump got a smattering of boos at the Republican Jewish Coalition presidential forum for questioning Israel's commitment to peace and refusing to  embrace Jerusalem as its rightful capital. Yet when more than once he seemed to  stereotype the financial acumen of powerful Jewish donors and activists, he got  chuckles and applause.   
TRUMP: Look, I'm a negotiator like you folks. We're negotiators. Is there anybody that doesn't renegotiate deals in this room? This room negotiates. I  want to -- perhaps more than any room I've ever spoken to, maybe more.   
CAMERON: Cruz has moved into second place in national polls and at a gun range in Iowa promised to defend the Second Amendment against arguments by the  President and others that mass shootings warrant more gun regulations.   
SEN. TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: That is not a solution to this terror attack. Indeed the fact that we are a free citizenry and a citizenry who  exercises our constitutional rights helps keep us safe.   
SEN. MARCO RUBIO, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't want to hear any more -- the President talking about gun control. We need bomb control.   
CAMERON: Rubio and Cruz have been lobbying rhetorical grenades at one another over security policy for weeks. Rubio today suggested the President put privacy  ahead of security when the NSA's bulk collection of phone data was curtailed  this week. Rubio opposed the move which Cruz and Rand Paul supported.   
RUBIO: This president has weakened our intelligence programs and you even had some Republicans support him in that effort.    Several Republican candidates are in Iowa tomorrow for a big cattle call  sponsored by the conservative Koch Brothers Group known as the Freedom Partners.  Trump is in Iowa, but he's holding big rallies of his own where he will not have  to share the stage with anybody else -- Bret.   
BAIER: All right. Carl -- thank you.   Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee is our guest in the "Center Seat" at the  bottom of the hour this will be our 14th "Center Seat" with presidential  candidates this year. You can watch them all through the Fox News Web site right  there.    Hillary Clinton is preparing for a major shopping spree. It has nothing to do  with the coming holidays. But has everything to do with your tax dollars.    Chief White House correspondent Ed Henry goes down the wish list.       
ED HENRY, FOX NEWS CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: As President Obama signed the long-stalled highway bill today, Hillary Clinton declared in Iowa the  massive $305 billion price tag is just a starting point for her.   
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's a lot of money, but nowhere near what we need to spend.   
HENRY: In fact, Clinton is proposing a spending spree. Today she was laying out a $275 billion infrastructure plan, part of a broader $350 billion jobs plan  that's still growing as she unveils pieces of it, plus another $350 billion to  reduce college tuition, a $200 billion child care plan on top of $75 billion to  promote clean energy and $10 billion each for paid family leave, home care for  the elderly, and drug treatment.   
DOUGLAS HOLTZ-EAKIN, AMERICAN ACTION FORUM: Roughly $1.2 trillion in additional new spending which is a frighteningly large number except when compared to  Bernie Sanders, who is somewhere north of $17 trillion.   
HENRY: Tacking to the left has helped Clinton expand her national lead over the socialist Democratic senator. And a new Gallup poll shows Clinton's net  favorable rating among Democrats and Democratic leaning Independents averaged 21  points higher than Sanders in November up from a 13 point advantage in September  and early October.    Yet Clinton still has vulnerabilities in a general election. She has said  nothing about how she'll pay for all of the new spending.   
CLINTON: I will not raise taxes on the middle class of America.  
HENRY: And her e-mail situation has been cited as a problem even by aides to Labor Secretary Thomas Perez who today endorsed Clinton.   
THOMAS PEREZ, U.S. LABOR SECRETARY: She is a fighter.  
HENRY: Labor department e-mails obtained by the conservative super PAC America Rising through the Freedom of Information Act show that in March after the story  broke about Clinton's personal server while she was secretary of state, records  officials at the Labor Department sent each other e-mails declaring "What in the  heck was State thinking?" And "You may want to share with the group as to how  not to handle things and how you can end up in nationwide news."       
HENRY: And in another e-mail between Labor Department officials, one of them was said to be so glad they're not working at the State Department, adding LOL --  Bret.   
BAIER: We talk about this now, the biggest single deadliest terrorist attack on U.S. soil since 9/11. How does this affect Hillary Clinton as this  administration deals with the naming of it, the talking about it?   
HENRY: This is the Clinton conundrum -- right. Her resume was supposed to be the best secretary of state but now she also has the baggage of the Clinton foreign  policy -- calling ISIS the JV squad, al Qaeda is on the run. It certainly  doesn't look like that on American soil. She's trying to turn it around in part  by focusing on gun control and saying Republicans look extreme there.    But on one of the issues she's pushing, don't let people who are on the no-fly  list buy guns the fact of the matter is there's no evidence here that Farook was  on a no-fly list. Neither he nor his wife or they had any criminal record that  would have prevented him from buying these guns.   
BAIER: She just called it terrorism in the past few minutes.  
HENRY: Just in the last few minutes.  
BAIER: Right. Ed -- thanks.  
HENRY: Good to see you.  
BAIER: The attorney general in Texas is withdrawing his attempt to block the resettlement of Syrian refugees in his state next week. The AG says the feds  have provided the additional information about the migrants that they had  initially withheld. Earlier today, the Obama administration tried to get a court  to block the Texas move. It contends states do not have the authority to prevent  refugee placement.    Still ahead, Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee takes questions in  our "Center Seat".    First, congressional Republicans make good on their promise to pass a bill to  repeal Obamacare. We'll tell you what comes next.   
BAIER: The U.S. Supreme Court will hear an appeal from Puerto Rican officials seeking to restructure some of the Commonwealth's $72 billion debt. Puerto Rico  wants justices to review a lower court ruling keeping local municipalities from  declaring bankruptcy.    Stocks surged today, fueled by a November jobs report that showed a gain of  211,000 positions. The unemployment rate remains at 5 percent, but it beat  expectations. It's important to note the number of people without a job, not  participating in the workforce is still over the 94 million mark for the fourth  month in a row.    The Dow got back into positive territory for the year, gaining a huge 370 points  today, the S&P 500 was up 42, the Nasdaq finished ahead 105.    For the week the Dow was up a quarter of a percentage point, the S&P 500 gained  five-hundredths, Nasdaq was also up a quarter.    President Obama will finally get his chance to veto a Republican-led effort to  scrap President Obama's own health care law.    Chief congressional correspondent Mike Emanuel on how the GOP-led Congress  finally delivered on a promise.       
MIKE EMANUEL, FOX NEWS CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: After the House has voted 61 times to repeal or scale back at least parts of Obamacare, last night  the Senate passed a measure gutting the President's health care law. Through a  process known as budget reconciliation the senate only needed 51 to pass it and  did so with a 52-47 vote. Republicans called Obamacare a failure full of higher  costs and broken promises.   
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL, MINORITY LEADER: It will be a victory for the middle class families who have endured this law's pain far too long -- on their  medical choices, on the affordability of their care, on the availability of  their doctors.   
EMANUEL: White House aides say President Obama is willing to work with people on either side who have a genuine desire to improve the law.   
EARNEST: The frustration that the administration has felt is that time and time again the goal of Republicans has been not to strengthen the law, but rather to  undermine it.   
EMANUEL: Republican moderates Mark Kirk of Illinois and Susan Collins of Maine voted against because of the language defunding Planned Parenthood. A leading  Senate Democrat tried to strip out that part of the bill but was unsuccessful.   
SEN. PATTY MURRAY, WASHINGTON: Unfortunately with this latest tired political effort to dismantle critical health care reforms, my Republican  colleagues are once again making clear they want to take our health care system  back to the bad old days.   
EMANUEL: However the law remains unpopular with much of the country. The Real Clear Politics Average of recent polls reveals 49.8 percent against Obamacare,  with 43 percent in favor. House Speaker Paul Ryan is already talking about an  alternative.   
REP. PAUL RYAN, HOUSE SPEAKER: We think prices are going up because people have too few choices, not because they have too many. And we think this  problem is so urgent that next year we will unveil a plan to replace every  single word of Obamacare.       
EMANUEL: The President is expected to veto this legislation that would kill his signature law. But what this shows is a blueprint of how Congress could unravel  Obamacare if there's a Republican president in 2017 -- Bret.   
BAIER: Mike -- thanks.   Germany is getting involved militarily in the fight against is, lawmakers have  voted to send reconnaissance jets, a tanker plane and a frigate to provide broad  noncombat support.    Three weeks after the Paris terror attacks, the European Union ministers meeting  in Brussels have agreed on a system to share airline passenger information,  paving the way for closer scrutiny of extremists and terrorists. Also today a  Paris cafe where five people were killed reopened to the public.    Turkey's prime minister says his country will not be brought to its knees by  Russian sanctions in retaliation for downing a Russian war plane. The Prime  Minister also reiterates Turkey will not apologize.    Yesterday Russian President Vladimir Putin accused Turkey of a treacherous war  crime and vowed to make the country feel sorry for its actions.    When we come back, Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee is in our  "Center Seat".   
BAIER: Tonight we welcome Republican presidential candidate, former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee to our Center Seat. Asking the questions tonight, Charles  Lane, opinion writer for the "Washington Post," Amy Walter, national for "The  Cook POLITICAL Report," and Charles Hurt, political columnist for the  "Washington Times." Governor, thanks for being here.   
MIKE HUCKABEE,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: My pleasure. Thank you very much.   It's been an interesting couple of days as we are learning more about this  situation in San Bernardino. Even though we now know from officials in the U.S.  government that at least one of these shooters pledged allegiance to ISIS, and  there are many other connections that are being talked about, the White House  again today was reticent to call it terrorism as of yet. And in fact, Josh  Earnest went back to an argument he made yesterday. Just take a listen to today?       
JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Why on earth do we think it's a good idea for somebody that the government thinks is too dangerous to board a plane  be allowed to buy a gun? It doesn't make any sense. But once again Republicans  blocked legislation that would make that illegal.       
BAIER: Your reaction to that and the White House response?  
HUCKABEE: Was there any indication that either one of these shooters were unable to board a plane? No, there was not. In fact they were fully vetted. They were  able to come back into the country. She had a passport, she had a visa. This  nonsense, well, they wouldn't have been able to buy guns. This is the false  argument that this White House has made in an attempt to dodge the real issue.  There are people who are trying to kill us. They're Islamic jihadists. I don't  know why they can't just come up and say it. They wouldn't say it after Little  Rock, they wouldn't say it after Fort Hood, they wouldn't say it after Oklahoma  City. You have the Boston Marathon. How many times does this have to happen?    He keeps asking us, how many times do he we have to have mass shootings to get  gun control. I would like to ask him, how many times do we have Islamic jihadist  terrorist attacks and him not be able to acknowledge what we're fighting  against?   
BAIER: On the specific issue since they keep coming back to it, what about someone on the terrorist watch list, should they be allowed to buy a gun?   
HUCKABEE: The problem is most of the time it is a name, not a background. It's the full identity. So I've had friends, I'm sure all of us have, friends who  ended up on the list because their name was the name of somebody that might have  a suspicion, not necessarily even so much as a probable cause. But they were on  the no-fly list and it took them months if not a couple of years to get off of  it. In the meantime their lives were a living hell.    Why would you put people through that if you can't at that point really say that  this is a person you're suspecting of terrorist activity, even suspecting of  criminal activity?   
BAIER: Charlie?  
CHARLES HURT, "WASHINGTON TIMES": Governor, you know, we've seen this in Paris and in San Bernardino, this concept of the more home-grown jihadists, it's kind  of you know, more alarming I think than when they're foreign. How do you get at  that as the government?   
HUCKABEE: How does the government get to that? I'm not sure that the government ever can completely understand what causes a person to be that demented, that  off his rocker, because I don't think that any rational, sane person can think  in those terms, except that if you are a religious fanatic about something and  you believe that it is your God-given duty to go out and kill people because  they're infidels, then you can convince yourself. But then it becomes a  theological issue, not just a psychological issue.   
BAIER: Amy?  
AMY WALTER, NATIONAL EDITOR, "COOK POLITICAL REPORT": I want to just pull it back and talk about ISIS in a broader sense. We've had a lot of discussion now  with the Republican candidates taking sides about what to do about Assad -- keep  him there, at least he helps fill a vacuum that would get filled without him  there with radical jihadists, or take him out. Where are you on this?   
HUCKABEE: Assad is not our immediate problem. Assad has not killed or kidnapped Americans. The Iranians have and we made a deal with them. That doesn't make  sense to me.    It makes more sense to me to not worry as much about Assad even though I don't  trust him, I don't like him, and I don't think he's a good guy. But our  immediate threat is the Islamic jihad not only branch of ISIS and Al Qaeda and  Boko Haram, but those that are beheading Christians, that are infiltrating the  United States and doing dastardly deeds like we saw in San Bernardino.    I have the same attitude about Russia and Putin. I know many of my Republican  colleagues say I don't Russia, I don't trust Putin. We shouldn't have anything  to do with them. Look, my feeling is, if the Russians and Putin are willing to  go after ISIS members and kill them, we should not get in their way. In fact we  should thank them for being will to do that. We'll fight the battles that we  have with them on another day on another platform. Right now the immediate  threat we have is let's get rid of this malignant cancer and cut it out before  it metastasizes and kills more Americans.   
BAIER: Chuck?  
CHARLES LANE, OPINION WRITER, "WASHINGTON POST": I was going to pick up on that, because it's really not that simple. Russia, as we know, is not really striking  ISIS targets so far in Syria. And also Russia doesn't do anything for free. So  my question to you would be this, to get Russia actually to fight ISIS instead  of talking about it, which is what they're doing now, what would you be willing  to trade? If Vladimir Putin came to you and said we want you to back off of the  Baltics, we want to you back off in Ukraine, we want help with that, that and  the other of our concerns, what would you be willing to give him?   
HUCKABEE: Well, I'm not sure that we, we're in a position where we want to give him anything. I think it's a matter of making sure that he understands that the  only reason we welcome him to the world stage without contempt is because he  would like to do something in return and retaliation for ISIS knocking down an  airliner with 224 of his people on board. That doesn't mean anything to him.   
LANE: He's not doing anything militarily to ISIS.  
HUCKABEE: I'm not sure that that's true. I'm not sure that he is doing nothing to fight ISIS. He may not be doing what we want him to do. He may not be doing  what we wished he would do. But to say that Russia has no interest at all in  taking any of the people from ISIS out, I don't necessarily agree with that.   
LANE: In return for the little bitty thing he's doing against ISIS right now, you would be prepared to say let Assad, who is butchering all of these people  and driving them into Europe as refugees, leave him in power just in return for  that little, bitty, tiny thing?   
HUCKABEE: It's not a matter of thinking he's doing a wonderful job and we should leave him there and let's give him a Nobel Peace Prize. I'm just saying that he  is not the immediate target that we need to focus upon. If there are two houses,  one's on fire and one isn't, where do you put the water? You put the water on  the one that is raging in flames. Right now what's raging in flames is ISIS is  cutting people's heads off, ISIS is gaining ground. They're not contained.  That's where we need to take the fire truck and that's where we need to put the  water.   
BAIER: More with Governor Huckabee after a quick break.  
BAIER: Governor Mike Huckabee is in our Center Seat tonight. Governor, you are a proponent of the fair tax.   
HUCKABEE: Yes.  
BAIER: And there are many critics of the fair tax. One of them is AEI's Alan Viard. AD he calls the fair tax, quote "a big shift in the tax burden away from  high-income groups toward middle income, lower income groups. And whatever you  think about that politically, I think that's just not viable."   
HUCKABEE: Well, he's wrong. And he takes the same position that a lot of people have taken without understanding the actual fair tax, most of which comes from a  study that the Bush administration did on tax policy. They looked at the  consumption tax. They didn't actually look at the fair tax, though they think  they did.    The fair tax empowers people at the bottom third of the economy most of all by  about 14 percent, 15 percent. People in the middle third of the economy benefit  seven percent or eight percent. It's the people at the top who benefit the  least, still four or five percent. But because there's a provision in the fair  tax called a pre-bate that essentially un-taxes poor people for their basic  necessities, that it is the single most-empowering approach to taxation. It's  bold. It's different, and it brings jobs back to the very people in those middle  class areas who don't have them right now.   
BAIER: But on the back end of that, it's viable. Is it viable? Because tough get something through this Congress, and you know how Washington works.   
HUCKABEE: Yes.  
BAIER: The big ideas --  
HUCKABEE: It's not viable unless you have a president who can explain it, sell it, and lead it, because it isn't going to happen. It's 80 current congressional  sponsors of the fair tax with the bill that's in place. It's not going to happen  if you just have Congressional support. It's only going to happen if you have a  president that actually can go out there and help the American people to see  what this does to bring working capital back to America, get manufacturing jobs  back and also help alleviate the economic incentive of illegal immigration,  which the fair tax would help do.   
BAIER: Amy?  
WALTER: I want to talk about two of your proposals, Social Security and ethanol subsidies. In both cases you're arguing we don't need to have major reform,  structural reform on Social Security and Medicare, and that you want to continue  the ethanol subsidies. How do you square that with a philosophy that also  government is too big and that our deficit is too high? How do you not have to  tackle both of those things?   
HUCKABEE: Let's take Social Security first. That's not the government's money. People paid that in. Every paycheck I ever had since the age of 14 when I  started working. No one asked me if I wanted to give that money into an account  at the Social Security fund. It was taken out of me.    Now you have people who are approaching the age of retirement, Social Security  benefits, and then somebody says, hey, we're going to extend the age at which  you retire. And oh, and by the way, we're going to means test you. All that  money you put in, you may not need it after all.    Talk about big government. How big government is it when the government makes  the decision for me to take the money and then makes the decision not give it to  me after I've paid it in?   
WALTER: Do you believe we can continue on this path that we're on right now without reform?   
HUCKABEE: If our economy were growing at four percent a year, just four percent -- I think we could do better than that, but at four percent we fully fund  Social Security and Medicare. We've got more people talking about how we need to  cut benefits for seniors and how we need to rid ourselves of these programs that  people have depended on. With Social Security alone you've got 70 million people  depend upon Social Security. More than a third of them, that's 90 percent of  their income. Rather than talk about how to trim those benefits from them. Why  don't we talk about growing the economy, giving everybody's boat higher water to  float in? That makes a whole lot more sense to me.   
BAIER: But on the second part, Larry Lawyer writes in on Twitter, he says "Adulterating our gasoline with ethanol is a bad idea for everyone except corn  farmers. Why support it?"   
HUCKABEE: Well, first of all, the government mandated it, and the government encouraged people to go out and build this extraordinary infrastructure to take  care of not just ethanol but biofuels, which are renewable. Green people ought  to love this. The result has been 16 percent lower cost in energy for the  consumer and a greener outcome.    So on one hand you have people saying, well, you know this is what the  government mandated. This is a classic bait-and-switch from Washington. They  mandate it. Billions of dollars are spent to create the infrastructure to  deliver biofuels, and then the next thing you know the government says we were  just kidding. So all these people who made the investments, we're going to  gut-punch them again? This is why people hate Washington.   
BAIER: So it's not about Iowa. It's not about votes at the caucus?  
HUCKABEE: I was saying the same thing when I wasn't a candidate. I was saying the same thing before I was a presidential candidate.   
BAIER: Charlie?  
HURT: It is interesting you had an op-ed this morning in "The Des Moines Register." And I was wondering why it appeared in "The Des Moines Register," but  I think I know why.   
HUCKABEE: I'm not going to kid you. I'm trying to win Iowa. Let's not be coy about that. But it's not that the position on that was just because of the  election.   
HURT: OK, but at a time, and you yourself have just said this, at a time when energy prices are falling, a lot of this innovation is appears to be working on  its own now. Why do we -- why do I need to subsidize, why do the taxpayers and  the rest of the country have to subsidize this?   
HUCKABEE: Ultimately I think if you want to look at long-term, we won't need subsidies. But in the meantime, as we're developing the extraordinary necessary  infrastructure to make this work, my goal is to see us become the number one  energy exporter in the world. Do you have any idea what would happen if we  changed the balance of power, if we became the exporter of energy to Europe,  Africa, and Asia, and we took that market away from Russia, the Saudis, and the  Iranians? We don't just improve the American economy. We transform the very  essence of balance of military power itself.   
HURT: So would you say you're in favor of phasing out subsidies for ethanol?  
HUCKABEE: In the long-term if they're no longer needed to make sure that people whose investments have been made. You know, I just don't think you build this  infrastructure, you cause people to follow a mandate, and then you just change  the mandate in the middle. That's like changing the rules of the football game  at halftime while the guys are in the locker room. That's crazy, you can't do  that.   
BAIER: Well, we are phasing out our time on this panel. We'll start with Chuck after we get back. More with Governor Huckabee talking politics when we come  back.   
BAIER: We're back with our panel, Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee. Governor, you look at the latest poll out today, CNN-ORC. You are at  two percent in this poll. Donald Trump is at 36 percent in the newest poll. The  RCP, the Real Clear Politics average of recent polls, you are at 2.3 percent,  again up against 30.8. And in Iowa, where you just said you would like to win,  you are 1.7 percent. How do you tell supporters that there is a path when you  look at these polls?   
HUCKABEE: The path is the way it's been for the past several election cycles. I was at a number worse than this eight years ago. Rick Santorum was at a number  worse than that four years ago. We both ended up winning the Iowa caucuses.   
BAIER: But 57 days out of the caucuses you were that low?  
HUCKABEE: Yes, absolutely. And that's what people tend to forget. This is going to be a later caucus because now we are going to be February rather than early  January. And so there's 60 days before we actually start voting. In the  meantime, you know, Trump has got a great lead, but we're a long way from that  moment. And historically, it doesn't mean that if you are leading now you are  going to be leading when the votes get counted.   
BAIER: Chuck?  
LANE: A lot of people in the party are saying the probable with our field or one of the reasons Trump is running away from it is there are so darn many  candidates. And you are just above an asterisk. Several people in that  neighborhood, or at least one or two of them, Bobby Jindal comes to mind, have  already dropped out, saying in part the party needs to concentrate its fire and  get real. You've been processed by the Iowa voters as you pointed out yourself  eight years ago. Why isn't this poll really a signal that it's time to do the  right thing for the party and step aside?   
HUCKABEE: That would be like asking since some the publications even represented around the table are not number one around the marketplace, why don't they drop  out? Why don't they quit publishing? You're using up a lot of trees, a lot of  news space. Why not get out? Why keep subjecting the audience to a bigger  choice?   
LANE: If you were losing money.  
HUCKABEE: I'm not losing money. I'm gaining ground. I'm getting still the opportunity to talk about issues that matter to me. And as long as that is the  case, and until somebody has voted, I'm not sure why I should surrender before a  single vote has been cast. I just think it's a big mistake when people start  predicting. Let me ask you this, did you think Donald Trump would be running way  with the polls for as long as he has back in April of this year?   
LANE: No, I did not.  
HUCKABEE: Then you don't know and can't tell me who is going to be winning the Iowa caucus in 60 days. So I'm not going to drop out.   
LANE: -- already had his shot at the Iowa electorate a couple times in the past.  
HUCKABEE: Right. But let's wait until February 1st and see how it shakes out.  
WALTER: In April of this year I said that the best candidate, most likely nominee was going to be somebody who was a governor. Republicans electorate  loves governors. But now the top of the charts here, you got Trump, Carson, and  two senators. And the governors have not been making much of a dent. What's  going on? And is your experience not what people are looking for now?   
HUCKABEE: Well, it should be, because, I mean, do you want to get on an airplane that's flown by somebody who has never been in a cockpit before?   
WALTER: Apparently the Republican electorate says yes, they do.  
HUCKABEE: This shows how angry people are at government and particularly at Washington. What we have to do is remind them I have never had a paycheck from  Washington. Never worked and lived in the city. So don't blame me for what this  mess is. Look at what I was able to do in a very partisan, the most partisan  atmosphere in the entire country. Nobody had more lopsided legislature than me.  And I think you want to put somebody who has actually sat at the desk in the  executive office and made the real, tough life and death decisions.   
BAIER: You took the pledge governor, but you would support a nominee in Donald Trump?   
HUCKABEE: I would for a couple of reasons. Number one, I still think he would be better president than Hillary Clinton. I know both of them, and believe me, I  would vote for Trump in a heartbeat.    Secondly, the Republican Party asked all of us to pledge our loyalty to the  party. Isn't the party not going to pledge their loyalty to whichever one of us  wins? If they don't, then that's absolutely unacceptable, and they should have  to answer why they don't commit upfront that they will support whoever the  nominee is.   
BAIER: Charlie?  
HURT: If you are not running for the nomination, could you see yourself with the rest of the field, would you support Donald Trump? And would you look at so many  establishment Republicans who have such a hard time, you know, the acrimony that  they have for him, you know, why don't, why do they not understand what so many  voters right now see in Donald Trump?   
HUCKABEE: And I would say one of the questions is, will Donald Trump throws his support to me if I get the nomination? Let's hope that happens, too. I've  pledged I'm going to support the Republican nominee. I'm a team player, always  have been. The party provides an extraordinary level of resources for us to be a  part of this process. They spend millions of dollars building the party  infrastructure. So we should respect that and we should support the party and  its nominee. I just think that goes both ways and the party needs to support  whoever our nominee is by the votes of the people.   
BAIER: Governor, thank you. That is it for the Center Seat panel, but stay tuned for some political food for thought.   
BAIER: Finally tonight, political issues can be complicated and hard to digest, but our Center Seat guest likes to simplify things with food metaphors.       
HUCKABEE: I don't think we can just abandon the region for the simple reason that it doesn't get better with age. This isn't cheese. This isn't beef.    Republicans have a whole buffet, I mean, we are the Golden Corral of politics.    Politics is like opening a Baskin Robbins store.    If you are going to have sausage you have got to kill some pigs.    I wish I had had some meat that I could have put in that meat locker.    We better wake up and smell the falafel.    We're talking chicken and egg here.    It's like a 400-pound man saying I got to go on a diet but I am eating a sack of  Krispy Kreme before I do.    President Obama got rolled like a California sushi.       
BAIER: I mean, there is a lot of food metaphors there, governor.  
HUCKABEE: There were when you put them all together.      
HUCKABEE: It really was a funny skit.  
BAIER: I didn't know you could get a sack of Krispy Kreme.  
HUCKABEE: I will bring you one.      
BAIER: Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair, balanced, and unafraid. Greta goes ON THE RECORD right now.   
