  
BRETT BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: President Obama leaves the Paris global warming summit empty-handed and he says don't look for Russia to come around on Syria  any time soon.    This is "Special Report."    Good evening, welcome to Washington. I'm Brett Baier.    President Obama returns to the White House this hour. Fresh off a climate change  conference overshadowed by terrorism. While the president insists a lot was  accomplished in Paris, the summit will likely be remembered more for what did  not happen on global warming, ISIS, and Syria, than what did.    Correspondent Kevin Corke wraps up the president's trip from the French capital.       
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Calling it an economic and security imperative, President Obama wrapped up the historic Paris climate  summit by asking world leaders to attack climate change with the same  determination used in the fight against global terrorism.   
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The reason is because this one trend, climate change, affects all trends. Before long, we're going to have to  devote more and more and more of our economic and military resources not to  growing opportunities for our people, but to adapting to the various  consequences of a changing planet.   
CORKE: While attempting to make the climate change/terrorism link, the president was forced to acknowledge the inconvenient truth that global warming or not,  terrorism and war remains dark realities. Today, the Pentagon confirmed that  hundreds more Americans will not head overseas to support the fight against  ISIS.   
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: We're sending on President Obama's orders and the chairman's and my advice, special operations forces personnel to Syria  to support the fight against ISIL.   
CORKE: The move is just the latest change in strategy for White House that has struggled to form a cohesive plan to fight the terror group.    On the campaign trail, Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton rejected calls  for more U.S. ground troops.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE REPORTER: Under no circumstances would you not do that?  
HILLARY CLINTON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, at this point I cannot conceive of any circumstances where I would agree to do that.   
CORKE: Meanwhile, secretary of state John Kerry told "Rolling Stone" that the world can defeat ISIS. Telling the magazine quote "all of that can come to an  abrupt end if we get our act together."    But on Capitol Hill, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joe  Dunnford admitted that contrary to the president's bold proclamation about  containing ISIS earlier this month?   
GEN. JOE DUNNFORD, JOINS CHIEF OF STAFF: We have not contained ISIL.  
CORKE: Back in Paris, the president's latest meeting with Russian president Vladimir Putin Turkish president Erdogan, did little to ease tensions between  Moscow and Ankara in the wake of the recent downing of a Russian military  aircraft by the Turks. In fact FOX News has learned that the Russians have  expanded their military operations in Syria to include a second air base even as  the president predicted the kremlin could work with the west there.   
OBAMA: I don't expect you're going to see a 180 turn on their strategy over the next several weeks. They have invested for years now in keeping us out of power.   
CORKE: And as if dealing with terrorism and the Syrian crisis weren't enough, the president was asked if he was worries the agreements reached during this  climate summit might be undone by a future GOP president?   
OBAMA: Just with respect to my successor, let me first of all say that I'm anticipating a democrat succeeding me.       
CORKE: Brett, the president followed up the little equip about 2016 by adding he had confidence in the wisdom of the American people, whatever that supposed to  mean. I should also point out we learn tonight that the Germans are prepared to  send some 1200 troops to Syria to assist in the coalition's battle against ISIS  - Brett.   
BAIER: Kevin Corke live in Paris. Kevin, thank you.   An arrest tonight in the Paris terror attacks. Officials say the suspect is  believed to have helped secure lodging for the man who planned the assault and  who later died during a police raid. The only other person in custody is actual  the landlord who allegedly provided housing for that planner.    A short time ago, House Republicans up on Capitol Hill pushed through two  resolutions blocking President Obama's plan to force Steve cuts in greenhouse  gas emissions from U.S. power plants. The Senate approved identical motions last  month. The president has vowed to veto both measures.    We're learning more tonight about the special powers used by the federal  government to keep track of what you look at on the internet.    Correspondent Peter Doocy tells us about what you may consider a very  inconvenient truth.       
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: How would you like it if the search history on your personal computer filled with revealing personal  information wasn't personal anymore? Like when you Google the former flame to  see what they were up to? Or the time you used to browser to diagnose a medical  condition? Even that mistakes when you mistyped something into a search bar and  got results that were inappropriate.    Well, we learned this week the FBI can access all that without a warrant, even  if the user hasn't been charged with a crime. All that collection has security  experts concerned.   
BRIAN FINCH, PILLSBURY LAW: It may be a problem that if the FBI is sweeping in and all of a sudden all of this information, they may be providing a pool of  information that foreign governments could actually sweep up and use in order to  actually conduct further espionage.   
DOOCY: The feds issued something called a national security letter to make demands about a person's locations, purchases, contacts and searches. Service  providers get about 60 every day and they come with a gag order. But one  company, Calyx, wouldn't comply.   
NICHOLAS MERRILL, CALYX INTERNET ACCESS: When I got to the part of the letter that said I could never tell anybody that I received the letter, it really  alarmed me. It alarmed me because it seemed to be a clear violation of my right  to free speech.   
DOOCY: If there was a credible threat to the homeland, former CIA director Jim Woolsey believes that citizens wouldn't mind agents monitoring their activity.   
JAMES WOOLSEY, FORMER CIA DIRECTOR: Let's say it's something like what happened in Paris. People will start saying, well, I need the government to protect me,  and they will do what they did, I think, after 9/11 which is be pretty tolerant  of the government.   
DOOCY: Woolsey also argued that private companies like Amazon keep a ton of data on consumers with less oversight than federal agencies that do the same. But  people see D.C. differently for a reason.   
WOOLSEY: So if they wonder in the government why people don't trust them, they don't have to look much further than what happened with the IRS in the last  several years.       
DOOCY: So before you search for something, just know that even if you haven't been accused of anything, you're online queries may not remain private. They  could end up on a dry erase board at the J. Edgar Hoover building that a group  of agents are staring at wondering, what's up with that guy? - Brett.   
BAIER: Peter, thank you.   Stocks were up today. The Dow gained 168. The S&P 500 finished ahead 22. The  Nasdaq was up 48.    There are a new questions tonight about what Hillary Clinton knew, and where she  was getting her information following the Benghazi terror attacks.    Chief White House correspondent Ed Henry tonight with the latest fallout from  the Clinton email scandal.       
ED HENRY, FOX NEWS CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Some of Hillary Clinton's newly released emails may contradict her Benghazi testimony in October  when she claimed to not be aware that memos with sensitive information about  Libya she received on her personal server from controversial adviser Sidney  Blumenthal were actually put together by former intelligence official Tyler  Drumhelder.    Republican select committee chairman Trey Gowdy pressed on whether the secretary  of state basically had an outside intelligence network and why she was not more  curious about the source of information on the September 11th 2012 terror  attacks and other matters, noting it was not really coming from Blumenthal.   
CLINTON: I don't know who wrote them. He is the one that sent them to me.  
REP. TREY GOWDY, CHAIRMAN, HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON BENGHAZI: Would you be surprised to know not a single one of those was from him?   
CLINTON: I don't know where he got the information.  
GOWDY: Did you ask?  
HENRY: Yet, the new emails show on September 12th, 2012, the night after the attacks, Clinton received a message written by Drumheller, in which the former  CIA officer declared his sources quote "believe the attackers, having prepared  to launch their assault, took advantage of the cover provided by the  demonstrations in Benghazi, protesting an internet production or video seen as  disrespectful to the prophet Mohammed."    Raising more questions about Clinton's role in pushing the White House's  narrative, with national security adviser Susan Rice, that the video caused the  attacks. Since another new document revealed by the state department on Monday  shows Clinton met with Rice on September 14th, two days before the United  Nations ambassador infamously appeared on five Sunday talk shows.   
SUSAN RICE, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UNITED NATIONS: It was a spontaneous reaction to what had just transpired in Cairo as a consequence of the video.   
HENRY: There are also emails with the Clinton camp's reaction to her Benghazi testimony back in 2013.   
CLINTON: What difference at this point does it make?  
HENRY: Mark Penn an adviser from Clinton's 2008 campaign emailed it was a mistake. Declaring quote "looks more like they rattled you." While most other  advisers boasted they were doing high fives, a key cheerleader being top aide  Huma Abedin who emailed quote "I'm being flooded with emails about how you  rocked and you look fabulous."       
HENRY: Martin O'Malley jumped on the 2012 email with Clinton caucuses are quote "creatures of the party extremes," might not play well in Iowa -- Brett.   
BAIER: All right, Ed, thank you.   Up next, not a lot of holiday good cheer this season between Republican  presidential candidates, we'll show you that.    First, here's what some FOX affiliates around the country are covering tonight.    FOX 25 in Boston where lawyers for convicted marathon bomber Dzokhar Tsarnaev  are asking for a new trial. They say a recent Supreme Court ruling calls into  question 15 of the 30 counts against him. Tsarnaev was sentenced to death.    FOX 2 in San Francisco with a promise to newborn baby. Facebook founder Mark  Zuckerberg and his wife welcomed a baby girl named Max and they wrote in an open  letter, they will donate 99 percent of Zuckerberg's Facebook stock currently  worth $45 billion, with a B, to help promote equality for all children of the  next generation.    And this is a live look at Eden Prairie, Minnesota from FOX 9. The good news  story there, someone dropped a check for a half million dollars in a Salvation  Army Red Kettle Saturday. It's the largest single donation of its kind in the  twin cities. The anonymous donor says they hope to encourage others to give as  generously as they can this holiday season.    That's tonight's live look outside the beltway from "Special Report." We'll be  right back.   
BAIER: It is the season of giving and the main combatant in the Republican presidential race are giving each other a hard time tonight.    Here is chief political correspondent Carl Cameron.       
CARL CAMERON, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Jeb Bush is emphasizing national security hoping to jump-start his campaign a new ad  featuring Medal of Honor winners touting his leadership with a swipe at Donald  Trump.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the new reality show, this is serious business. This is about the livelihood of our kids and grandkids. This commander-in- chief  requires training wheels?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This nation hungers for leadership. We need Jeb Bush.  
CAMERON: Bush's ads will run three weeks in New Hampshire as supporters complain the independent super PAC supporting Bush has been has been holding back. In  Iowa, Bush said the U.S. should re-implement the recently curtailed bulk  surveillance collections of communications data.   
JEB BUSH, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It is a key element of keeping our safe, our civil liberties aren't being violated by having the NSA do its job.   
CAMERON: Ted Cruz and at majority of Congress approved ending the NSA program on privacy grounds. Marco Rubio wanted it continued and argues that Cruz and others  left the world less safe. Firing back, Cruz hit Rubio for backing U.S. military  action in Libya's civil war. Cruz opposed U.S. engagement in Libya. And amid  rising concerns that ISIS is emerging now in Libya slammed Rubio. Quote "Senator  Rubio emphatically supported Hillary Clinton in toppling Gadhafi in Libya. I  think that made no sense."    The next GOP debate is in two weeks. Trump threaten to boycott unless he has  paid $5 million to appear which he says he donate to veterans charities. He made  the threat before the last two debates and balked. This time he explained why.   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The problem is they will say that trump is chicken which I'm not. One thing I'm not is chicken. OK?   
CAMERON: Cruz and Chris Christie who have been reluctant to criticize Trump now both say he will not be president. Christie slammed Trump's recent apparent  mockery of a disabled journalist.   
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: He shouldn't be making fun of people's disabilities. It's just not worthy of someone running for president of  the United States.   
CAMERON: The governor of New Jersey also rebuked Trump's debunked claims that thousands of Muslims in New Jersey cheered the 20019/11 attacks.   
CHRISTIE: What went on that day in New Jersey was not anything like we said. And there's no film or video of it to prove it. He said he saw it on TV, it didn't  happen.       
CAMERON: Republican office holders and candidates are now increasingly open about their worry that the longer Trump is in the race, the more difficult his  rhetoric could make it for him to get elected -- Brett.   
BAIER: Carl, thank you.   A lot of support for Senator Cruz is coming from the faith community. Tonight  correspondent Shannon Bream looks at how Cruz and others are targeting  evangelicals.       
BOB VANDER PLAATS, THE FAMILY LEADER: They are crucial.  
SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Bob Vander Plaats heads up the highly influential Iowa-based conservative group, the Family Leader, and  says candidates who hope to top the state's caucuses on February 1st know they  will have to win over evangelicals.   
PLAATS: You need the base to come out because they are the ones who do the door-knocking, they do the phone calls. They do the hard work.   
BREAM: The Family Leader hosts numerous events aimed at probing what the candidates personally believe.   
CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think it's important that we elect a leader of faith and we elect a leader as well who knows that more prayer not  less is necessary in public life and in all our lives.   
BREAM: The most recent Quinnipiac poll out of the Hawkeye state shows evangelicals making a shift. Ben Carson's support dropping from 36-24 percent,  while Ted Cruz rocketed from 13 to 27 percent. Cruz has been unabashed about  courting evangelicals including kicking off his White House run at the world's  largest Christian college, Liberty University.   
SEN. TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: That's the only way we win the general is to bring back to the polls the millions of evangelical Christians,  the millions of Reagan Democrats of working men and women who stayed home in '08  and 12.   
BREAM: And as he rises in the polls, Marco Rubio is attracting attention from Iowa pastor who is say they like what they are hearing.   
SEN. MARCO RUBIO, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: As far as my relationship with Jesus Christ, the best way I have been able to describe it to people who are not  believers is God became a man, came down to earth and died for our sins.   
BREAM: Others say savvy Iowa churchgoers remain skeptical of the party's front-runner.   
TRUMP: When I talk about the bible, it's very personal. I don't want to get into --   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE REPORTER: You mean a lot to or cite.  
TRUMP: The bible means a lot to me, but I don't want to get into specifics.      
BREAM: Experts continue to debate whether evangelicals can really tip the scales in an election pointing to a pew research poll saying that 40 percent of  evangelicals self-identify as Democrats, leaning Democrat or say they have no  party leaning at all -- Brett.   
BAIER: Shannon, thank you.   Still ahead, another effort by the city of New York to tell you how or what to  eat or drink. This time the target, salt.    First the results of a U.N. probe into Iran's nuclear ambitions, a definite  maybe.   
BAIER: This is a FOX News alert breaking right now.   The Democratic attorney general in Illinois is calling for a federal civil  rights investigation into the Chicago police department. It comes just hours  after Chicago's top cop is unceremoniously fired by the mayor over the killing  of an African-American teen by a white police officer.    Correspondent Mike Tobin has the latest tonight from Chicago.       
MIKE TOBIN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Amid a firestorm of racial tension, Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel demanded and received the resignation of the  police superintendent he appointed, Garry McCarthy. However, Emanuel never get  specifics about McCarthy had done to merit his firing.   
MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL, CHICAGO: He has become an issue rather than dealing with the issue and a distraction.   
TOBIN: The ouster of McCarthy is not a surprise. In October, city council's black caucus demanded his firing in light of the gun violence which still  plagues the south and west side.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Should I go down with my own gun?  
TOBIN: That was before the impactible dash cam video was released as per a court order, the one that showed Officer Jason Van Dyke unload an entire clip into  17-year-old Laquan McDonald, most shots after McDonald was on the ground.    First-degree murder charges against Van Dyke were not enough to calm community  anger. Demonstrators still took to the streets last week. They called for the  firing of McCarthy and others, furious that the city held the video and Van Dyke  did not face charges for more than a year.   
CORNELL BROOKS, PRESIDENT, NAACP: Those in office who failed to hold accountable those who are responsible for misconduct, need to leave office.   
TOBIN: The family of another young African-American male, 25-year-old Ronald Johnson has come forward. They want video released of his shooting. Eight days  before the McDonald shooting. Their attorney says Chicago police shot Johnson in  the back and planted a weapon on him.   
MICHAEL OPPENHEIMER, JOHNSON FAMILY ATTORNEY: He never had a weapon. The police department and the city are still covering this up.       
TOBIN: Illinois attorney general Lisa Madigan has now sent a letter to U.S. attorney general, Loretta Lynch, asking for a federal investigation into the  pattern and practices of Chicago police, highlighting what she called the use of  excessive and unlawful force and a lack of accountability -- Brett.   
BAIER: Mike Tobin live in Chicago tonight.   Opening statements could begin tomorrow in the first trial in Baltimore  resulting from the death of an African-American man in police custody last  spring. The pool of prospective jurors has been narrowed to a smaller group in  the manslaughter trial of William porter one of six officers accused in the  death of 25-year-old Freddie Gray who sustained fatal injuries in the back of a  transport van in April.    Now back to foreign policy and questions left unanswered at the Paris summit  such as did Iran really try to produce nuclear weapons? The United Nations says  maybe. It doesn't know. It isn't sure. Despite months of investigation.    Chief intelligence correspondent Catherine Herridge is here to tell us why we  can't get an answer to a simple yes-or-no question.    Good evening, Catherine.   
CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brett, the U.N. nuclear watchdog said its assessment of Iran's nuclear program is  incomplete. President Obama said in Paris today that Tehran's pathway to Iran to  the bomb is effectively blocked because of his administration's leadership.       
OBAMA: You know, the same was true with respect to making sure that Iran didn't get a nuclear weapon. We had to lead the way, but ultimately, because we reached  out and brought our allies and partners together. We're able to achieve goals we  could not have achieved by ourselves.       
HERRIDGE: But last week, the international atomic energy agency or IAEA confirmed the findings of a five-month investigation into whether Iran has a  secret nuclear weapons program are not clear-cut.       
YUKIYA AMANO, IAEA DIRECTOR GENERAL: This is -- we have pieces, we have a better understanding now and I will analyze.       
HERRIDGE: Critics say years of renovation work at one of the most controversial military sites in Iran scrubbed evidence of nuclear weapons development,  including the removal of a testing chamber for a warhead. The IAEA review  matters because it's supposed to show how close Tehran got to the bomb and it's  a principal condition of the Obama administration's July nuclear deal. But if a  site like this is still a mystery, a member of the house intelligence committee  recently said sanctions must remain in place.       
MIKE POMPEO, HOUR INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE: As the primary guarantor of this deal, the administration has an obligation to redouble our efforts to get  the surveillance and the verification right. Such that what the president said  would be true. That the path for Iran to get a nuclear weapon were really close.       
HERRIDGE: An effort to implement the deal, a major legacy issue for the Obama White House, critics claim the administration is too quick to give Tehran a pass  on its past bad acts, but administration officials emphasize that the Iran has  cooperated with the IAEA and there is no reason to slow down the deal, Brett.   
BAIER: Catherine, thank you.  
HERRIDGE: You are welcome.  
BAIER: Coming up, shaking the salt habit, New York City tries to get you to go easy on the sodium in a not so subtle way.   
BAIER: And now some fresh pickings from the "Political Grapevine."   As the old G.I. Joe cartoon used to say, knowing is half the battle. The  inspector general for Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, knows when he's  been beaten. The I.G. cannot audit part of HUD's books because of improper  budgeting and inaccurate reporting. The report named nine material weaknesses,  eight significant deficiencies in internal controls, and six instances of  noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. One example, the Government  National Mortgage Association did not accurately account for some budgetary  resources and was simply not auditable. Try using that excuse on your tax  return.    The amount in question -- almost $20 billion. The department is promising to  work closely with the I.G. to create a more effective HUD.    Apparently this whole "will of the people" thing is overrated. Five illegal  immigrants are suing the state of Oregon to overturn a ballot initiative that  denies them driver's licenses. Two-thirds of Oregon voters opted to reinstate  that ban last year despite being outspent 10-one. And 35 of 36 counties and  every congressional district voted to reject issuing licenses even though most  are represented by Democrats. The lawsuit alleges the ban is unconstitutional  because it denies illegal immigrants privileges based on a membership in a  disfavored minority group. Supporters say it is not the responsibility of the  state to make illegal immigrants comfortable or enable them to drive to jobs  they're not supposed to have.    Finally government financial fumbles -- Oklahoma Republican Senator James  Langford has compiled a memorable and miserable new list of government waste  nightmares. Some are not new to the grapevine, like the $43 million gas station  in Afghanistan. Other costly lowlights include a half-million dollars to the  state department for consultants on how to tell the truth to Congress. And  $65,000 for the National Park Service to demonstrate what happens to bugs when  the lights go out.    Salt shaming tonight in New York City, it's part of the city's ongoing effort to  inform you or guilt you into living healthier. Correspondent Laura Ingle has the  bittersweet details from the big apple.       
DR. MARY BASSETT, NEW YORK CITY HEALTH COMMISSIONER: This is a health measure. We're talking about the leading cause of death.   
LAURA INGLE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: The New York City Department of Health's new warning system is designed to alert consumers that they could be ordering a  meal that is packed with an entire day's worth of sodium. Diners in New York  City will see black warning labels with a salt shaker icon next to items with  the recommended daily limit, 2,300 milligrams or more, or roughly a teaspoon of  salt. The rule applies to restaurants with 15 or more locations nationwide.  Chains that don't comply run the risk of a $200 fine. New York City's health  commissioner hopes this will help people eat healthier.   
BASSETT: Many New Yorkers are not aware of the connection between sodium and high blood pressure, stroke, and heart attack, the important leading causes of  death in our city and our nation.   
INGLE: The National Restaurant Association calls the new rule an overreach of local government, arguing printing new menus is a financial burden for  franchisees. The organization is suing the health department.   
ANGELO AMADOR, NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION: We will like this law invalidated and we would like an injunction issued by the courts as soon as  possible to prevent the cost and the harm to these businesses in New York.   
INGLE: So far consumer reaction is mixed.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The more information, the better. I think we're becoming so much more aware of what we're putting into our bodies these days.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You do salt now, next it's too much pepper. Then it's too much cilantro. You start with one, you start with another and it's -- it's going  to be too much. It's too much.       
INGLE: This is just the latest public health initiative for the city which has included restrictions on smoking, calorie counts on menus, and of course that  push to set limits on large sugary drinks which the New York state Supreme Court  ultimately blocked. Bret?   
BAIER: Laura, thank you.   President Obama gets no deal on climate change and does not appear to make any  real progress against ISIS while in Paris. We'll get reaction from the panel  when we come back.       
BARACK OBAMA,PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I don't think they're gaining strength. What is true is that from the start our goal has been first to  contain, and we have contained them.   
GEN. JOSEPH DUNFORD, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF CHAIRMAN: We have not contained ISIL.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have they been contained at any time since 2010?  
DUNFORD: Tactically in areas they have been. Strategically they have spread since 2010.   
OBAMA: We've got to choke them off. We have to choke off how they make money. We've got to choke off their ability to bring in new fighters.       
BAIER: The president today in Paris wrapping up the climate change conference, also talking about the fight against ISIS. We'll talk a little bit more about  the plan in Syria as this administration sees it. Up on Capitol Hill, the  defense secretary today saying there is a plan to put more troops in both Iraq  and Syria.       
ASHTON CARTER, DEFENSE SECRETARY: In full coordination with the government of Iraq, we're deploying a specialized expeditionary targeting force to assist  Iraqi and Kurdish Peshmerga forces to put more pressure on ISIL. These special  operators will over time be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather  intelligence and capture ISIL leaders. This force will also be in a position to  conduct unilateral operations in Syria.       
BAIER: Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee looking on there, Mac Thornberry. This in addition to the special ops forces heading into northern  Syria. Let's bring in Steve Hayes, senior writer for "The Weekly Standard," A.B.  Stoddard, associate editor of "The Hill," and syndicated columnist Charles  Krauthammer. Steve?   
STEVE HAYES, SENIOR WRITER, "THE WEEKLY STANDARD": It was very interesting listening to the Secretary of Defense Ash Carter take a much more aggressive  line, rhetorical line, I think, with respect to problem on ISIL. And you saw  Dunford say in effect they were never contained.    There seems to be two different messages coming out of the administration. On  the one hand you've got military and folks at the Pentagon saying we're taking  this seriously. We want to lead on this. Ash Carter just made remarks at Harvard  in which he said the United States will lead this coalition and we will defeat  ISIS, something that we haven't heard from the president of the United States.    At the same time, you have John Kerry saying we might be able to win if we get  our act together, which was reminiscent of the president's comments from June in  which, well, we don't quite have a strategy for ISIS yet, and I think consistent  with what we've seen from the president with respect to climate change. Where  the president seems to be much more enthusiastic and engaged in talking about  climate change and describing that problem in very apocalyptic terms but not  doing the same thing on ISIS.    So you're getting these two different messages coming from the administration. I  think the steps that we heard from the Pentagon were first steps. They were  positive. There were lots of details that we need to hear more about. But it's  still inconsistent with what we're hearing from the White House. And we've seen  over the past seven years that nothing matters more than what the White House  says and does.   
BAIER: Yes. A.B.?  
A.B. STODDARD, ASSOCIATE EDITOR, "THE HILL": I thought that it was heartening that the secretary of defense wanted to be specific about the kind of operations  that require a ground presence that we have not been able to target. We've not  been able to do certain things on the ground without a ground presence that is  now going to work in conjunction in Iraq with Iraqi forces and Peshmerga also  going to be unilaterally operating in Syria. It was an admission that we  couldn't effectively target, we didn't have the intelligence to back up the  strikes, and so our air campaign was ineffective. It is a stark admission.    And he then was intentionally vague about how this will expand, and he basically  said it's open-ended. And that is a big change because what they wanted to do so  far is say we're going to do this, it's going to work, and it's going to be  tight and restricted. It's going to be 50 people, it's going to be this and  that. They really for the first time were intentionally vague and open-ended.  And I think that is a recognition that what they've done hasn't worked and they  need to try something different and something larger.   
BAIER: Also saying today that it's just the beginning of what's possible as far as deployment. I want to play -- President Obama asked about the Russians and  specifically Vladimir Putin and what those air strikes are doing inside Syria,  if that will change.       
OBAMA: Mr. Putin, I don't expect that you're going to see a 180 turn on their strategy over the next several weeks. So I don't think we should be under any  illusions that somehow Russia starts hitting only ISIL targets. That's not  happening now. It was never happening. It's not going to be happening in the  next several weeks.       
BAIER: So there.  
CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: But he does say that eventually Putin will come to his senses and understand that, as Obama has been saying, Obama  understands the Russian national interests and Putin doesn't. And when the  enlightenment arrives Putin will ultimately change his position and join us. I  mean, for a guy who doesn't understand the American national interests, that's a  remarkable statement.    But then he actually added something and said, with the memory of Afghanistan  fresh in his mind, Putin will understand he's in the quagmire. The Russians left  Afghanistan 25 years ago. The people stuck in the quagmire today are Americans  under Obama. He's been in office seven years, 76 percent of the combat deaths of  Americans in Afghanistan has occurred under Obama, and there is little doubt  that our position in Afghanistan today is weaker than it was seven years ago  when he came into office. So when he's trying to instruct Putin on national  interests and on quagmires, he's on rather thin ground.    And just one point about the testimony today. The chairman of the joint chiefs  was asked whether he considers the drivers of the oil trucks by ISIS, the ones  who export it, as combatants. And he said no, they're civilians, trying to feed  their families. And that's why we actually dropped leaflets warning the drivers  three-quarters of an hour before any strikes. This is a joke, and it comes not  from the Pentagon. It comes from the White House. This has not been a serious  air war, and all the promises that oh, yes, now we're going to get serious I  think are a joke as long as this president is commander-in-chief.   
BAIER: The administration continues to say that Russia is in a quagmire and this will eventually perpetuate this political solution in Syria. But now we get word  that Russia is increasing its force on the ground. It has added another air base  inside Syria. Do you think that this is going to force a political solution  somehow?   
HAYES: No. I don't. And we've seen the president project his views on to Vladimir Putin now going on several years. He certainly did it with respect to  Ukraine. I think that's what's happening here.    But if you look at what the president said there about Putin, it's remarkable  that he wasn't bolder in his criticism of criticism. It's not just Vladimir  Putin and Russia aren't going to change their strategy to bring it in line with  U.S. interests. It's that they've been bombing U.S.- backed groups in Syria. You  would think that might occasion some outrage on the president of the United  States.   
BAIER: Even after --  
HAYES: He's in such a box, the president is in such a box that he can't do this. And I think where this is all heading is likely U.S. cooperation with Russia. I  believe that that's happening tactically on the ground right now to a much  greater extent than people in Washington understand. I expect that we'll see  them give up the pretense and basically own it in the next several weeks.   
BAIER: Even after a Russian airliner was brought down allegedly by ISIS. I want to play this sound bite. This is Hillary Clinton this morning on CBS about  troops in Syria.       
HILLARY CLINTON,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I agree with the president's point that we're not putting American combat troops back into Syria or Iraq. We are  not going to do that. This --   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Under no circumstances would you not do that?  
CLINTON: Well, at this point I cannot conceive of any circumstances where I would agree to do that. We don't know how many special forces might be needed,  how many trainers and surveillance and enablers might be need. But in terms of  thousands of combat troops like some on the Republican side are recommending, I  think that should be a nonstarter.       
BAIER: It may be good politics, A.B., but it's an interesting decision in the time of uncertainty.   
STODDARD: For Hillary Clinton with her entire record, it really is startling to hear her say so close after the attacks in Paris, which could easily have  happened here and are anticipated some form of an attack like that would happen  here sooner rather than later, for her to say that she can't conceive -- later  on she said thousands like the Republicans are talking about. But she said she  couldn't conceive of a situation where we put ground troops there. But we are.  That's what we're doing right now. We're starting and then expanding a ground  presence because we realize that the air campaign is ineffective.   
KRAUTHAMMER: That was a carefully constructed answer with Clintonian language, which will leave her, if she is the president, to actually act if she needs to.  And I think she's the kind of person who is not that ideologically committed the  way Obama is and the way Sanders is. I think she's a lot more flexible. But she  says whatever she needs to say politically, and that's what she's doing.   
BAIER: Next up, Republicans going after each other in the presidential race. The countdown to Iowa is on.       
SEN. TED CRUZ,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I have never met anybody, any conservative who wants to ban contraceptives. As I noted, Heidi and I, we have  two little girls. I'm very glad we don't have 17.       
CRUZ: When I was in college, we had a machine in the bathroom, you put 50 cents in and voila.           
BAIER: Ted Cruz with an interesting pushback against the war on women that is alleged against Republicans. He is making a run in Iowa and he is doing it,  getting a lot of faith based support. This is the Iowa caucus, the Quinnipiac  poll just out this week. And there you see Trump again on top but essentially  tied with Ted Cruz. You look internally in this poll, and this is support  consider themselves born again evangelical Christians, 27 percent for Cruz. And  there you see Carson second and Trump in third. We're back with the panel. We  are, Charles, 62 days from the first voting.   
KRAUTHAMMER: And that Carson, that graphic you showed is almost a major reversal among evangelicals between the position of Cruz and Carson. It is clear that  Carson has slid dramatically and that it has largely gone to Cruz. Is he is the  inheritor. I don't see any reason why the Carson slide will not continue, and  what we're getting now is the fight within Cruz and Rubio over essentially who  is going to be -- who is going to urine the title fight against the leader,  which is Trump.    They are starting to fight a little early among themselves, but they obviously  see the winner of this under card, Cruz versus Rubio, as the guy who will get to  go into the finals. Rubio, I think, has benefited over the last few months from  the decline of Bush support. A lot of it has gone to him. And also the fact that  the mainstream -- I don't like to use establishment, but the more mainstream  Republicans who have given up on Bush are seeing Rubio as the one who is the  most likely to win against Hillary.   
BAIER: This battle, A.B., between Rubio and Cruz on national security is significant. It started out with the NSA, Rubio attacking Cruz on a vote about  the National Security Agency. And then you had this "Bloomberg" article,  "Senator Rubio emphatically supported Hillary Clinton, says Cruz, in toppling  Gadhafi in Libya. I think that made no sense," Cruz told "Bloomberg." On Syria,  he said against Rubio and Clinton, "In my view we have no dog in the fight of  the Syrian civil war, he said, arguing that Rubio and Clinton are repeating the  very same mistakes they made in Libya. They have demonstrated they have learned  nothing." Interesting tying Rubio with Clinton.   
STODDARD: Yes. And so the gloves are off. This is a window of time where they worry that the voters are going to defocus off of the race and on to Christmas.  And there is -- you know volatility with Carson's numbers slipping, Cruz's rise,  Rubio's rise, and you see Christie attacking Trump, Christie attacking the  senators Cruz and Rubio. You see Rubio and Cruz in this fight, not only on  national security where Rubio is going to paint him as a Rand Paul dove because  he said we have no stake in this fight in Syria. Basically we would be fine with  Gadhafi, and the same in Egypt, that, you know, the push by people like Clinton  led us to the Muslim Brotherhood. So that is something that Rubio going to take  advantage of.    The other thing is Ted Cruz is going to be under enormous pressure on  immigration. Rubio has been leading that. He cannot come up with an answer, and  this is now on tape, and it's been on the Hugh Hewitt Shows, he can't come up  with an answer what is amnesty. Essentially his position is very similar to the  other people in the race including Rubio. And so this will be a huge thing in  the next couple weeks.   
HAYES: Cruz would like to position himself between Rubio on the one hand and Rand Paul on the other hand. But I think, particularly in this "Bloomberg"  article, he makes an argument lumping Rubio in with Clinton and Obama that I  think is a stretch, a lot of people are going to think is a stretch.    And at one point Cruz said, well, you know, Rubio is basically in favor of the  kind of military adventurism that we have seen so much of from the Obama  administration. I don't think that's the main conservative critique of the Obama  administration. The main critique is we haven't projected American power. We  certainly haven't used it. I'd say Libya, maybe Syria are exceptions to that,  but that's a risky argument for Cruz to make. He's going to have to make it in a  more nuanced way going forward.   
BAIER: And 62 days. That's it for the panel. But stay tuned to see how one presidential candidate is getting into the holiday spirit on the trail.   
BAIER: Finally tonight, Republican presidential candidate billionaire Donald Trump of course has a few signature lines, but there is one word he appears to  be saying a lot on the campaign trail this season. And one late night show  insists it's an homage to the 50th anniversary of the Charlie Brown Christmas.       
DONALD TRUMP,PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What you're talking about is a lot, but it's peanuts for me.    The cost of the wall is peanuts.    We're talking about peanuts.    That's going to be peanuts.    Peanuts.    That's peanuts, peanuts.    That's peanuts. That's peanuts.    Peanuts, peanuts, peanuts.    Peanuts. Peanuts.    Peanuts.    Glorified billion is peanuts. It's peanuts.       
BAIER: Maybe so. Secret message, maybe. Charlie Brown Christmas. Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair,  balanced, and unafraid. Good to be back in the chair. Greta goes ON THE RECORD  right now.   
