  
 GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: And this is a "Fox News" alert. A shootout on the streets of San Bernardino, California. Just moments ago, police  firing shots at a black SUV in the middle of the street. The windshield riddled  with the bullets and officer also taking fire, but we are told that officer is  OK.    Police say they believe two suspects are down. One more believed still to be on  the run. But at this critical hour, the critical question is are those suspects,  those evil gunmen behind a mass shooting hours earlier killing at least 14  people at a crowded business complex that takes care of disabled people. Another  17 innocent victims rushed to hospitals.    ON THE RECORD has live team coverage and it all starts with "Fox News"  correspondent Adam Housley live in San Bernardino.    Actually, we're going to go with Jonathan Hunt who is also live on the scene.    Jonathan?   
JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, just about a little under an hour ago, that black SUV that you have seen was surrounded by police. Some sort of  gun battle ensued. We understand that there was some firing from that vehicle  and as you can see from the pictures of it, if you have those available, it was  riddled with returned fire by the vast number of police and other law  enforcement agents who surrounded the vehicle.    We understand that there were at least two people inside it, possibly a third  one who may or may not be on the run. At this stage, we simply don't know. This  is unfolding as we speak.    Certainly, we have seen one person on the ground laying in a pool of blood.  Another person appeared to be in the backseat of that vehicle. And police used  some sort of device to push out that person who appeared from what we could see  certainly not to be alive any longer.    Now this all began some five hours ago, a short distance from where I'm standing  at the Inland Regional Center. That is a center --       
VAN SUSTEREN: Jonathan, we've got to go to Shepard Smith in New York.   Shep?   
SHEPARD SMITH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: That this is not over. One suspect or someone believed to be a suspect in custody. Two others dead in the street.  Police speaking live now. Listen.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE POLICE: Officers that are working this active shooter case were doing follow-up work when they located what they appeared to be the  suspect's vehicle. Somehow during that contact, shots were exchanged between the  suspects and the officers. One officer was injured. However, he was transported  to a local hospital and it does not appear to be a life-threatening injury. I  believe he is a San Bernardino police officer.    Additionally, some suspects or a suspect has been hit. I believe there is still  possibly a suspect outstanding. So it is still, again, a very active, fluid  situation. We don't have a lot of answers yet. They are still trying to.       
SMITH: And here is some of that fluid situation. Nearby, just about a third of a mile away from this location, the police have now surrounded a church. We can  cut off the news conference now because they are, frankly, not reporting on  this.    They have surrounded this church. And we've just gotten word from a witness on  scene that says that a man came up to him who he believed to be a suspect, then  ran into this building, which is sometimes being described as a church,  sometimes being described as a home. We believe it's a combination of the two,  actually. And police have now surrounded this church.    We believe that a suspect has barricaded himself inside this church. And  authorities are now working to communicate with this person and bring this  situation to an end. So so far we have two dead in the street on San Bernardino  Avenue. One person in custody who is believed to be the suspect. And now they  have surrounded this church area which is an active scene. And we are waiting  for people on scene to give us more information on that.    We have multiple reports saying that this suspect may have -- a member of the  Los Angeles County Fire Department has said that according to the San Bernardino  Police Department, they are getting reports that one suspect may have run across  a runway and authorities have now been searching for that. And this is the  location that they now have surrounded, according to people on the ground.    One man inside authorities attempted to approach. And now they are trying to  make contact. Obviously, tensions are very high. There is no way to know for  authorities exactly how many people may have been involved. Remember, at the  beginning of this, it was first said to be multiple suspects. Then the  authorities told us in a news conference upwards of three. The question all  along has been might they have had a driver for this get away vehicle, the dark  SUV as it was described.    Shepard?   
SMITH: Yes, Greta?  
VAN SUSTEREN: Shepard, I think the one thing that we have to keep emphasizing that while it certainly is enormously suspicious that they are tied to this  massacre, which has gunned down 14 people that we have yet to officially tie  these to the actual massacre. It could just be that these are three other  horrible people on the run shooting at police. It certainly is suspicious. But  right now they have not been tied other than the one witness --   
SMITH: Actually, Greta.  
VAN SUSTEREN: One witness said that he saw a black vehicle drive away.   Yes?   
SMITH: Well, the spokesperson for the San Bernardino Police Department has just said that these are the suspects. The two of the suspects in this afternoon's  shooting were shot and killed in the shootout that happened on the street, which  is un -- here's what's unclear to police, according to police at this moment.    What's unclear to police is whether they have all of the suspects, which takes  us to this church which they now have surrounded. And the person with whom they  want to have contact will not come out. According to witnesses in the area, the  police have now sent out a directive for all people in this area to remain in  their homes, to lock their doors and not come outside. That they believe there  is a suspect here. They have tried to make contact. The person will not come  out. Therefore they have surrounded the building and we wait as they do.   
 VAN SUSTEREN: And the police are going to come back in 40 minutes with another press conference with an update.   
SMITH: And actually if you look here, we have one person spread out on this vehicle and authorities are searching, but that's not surprising at all. Anybody  who might be in this neighborhood if they can't be sure if this is a friendly or  a foe, just as happened after the shooting, people would put their hands up.  They will all be frisked.    Make sure that the area is safe. That the person is not a danger to anyone, but  what we are watching right now really is uncertain.    Chris Olello, one of our information specialists with new information here  on the "Fox News" deck about what we are seeing.    Chris, live pictures.   
CHRIS OLELLO, FOX NEWS INFORMATION SPECIALIST: Hey, Shep. So NBC L.A. is saying that the officers are now relocating to a residence. They are moving their  attention away from that church. They are calling for backup and air support.  It's near Davidson Street. They say that there is possible movement at a  residence and it seems to be what's happening at the moment.   
SMITH: So, Greta, it's a very fluid situation. Authorities haven't known from the very beginning and they were quite clear with us that they weren't really  sure about how many people were involved. But I can tell you this, L.A. County  Fire Department, a tweet from Bernie Deo, a member of the Los Angeles Fire  Department photo unit has just sent this.    Units at 1003 East Brier want air unit to check the roof of these parking  structures. Reports of shots fired in the area of a Chipotle there. So we are  getting lots of reports, Greta, that indicate this is not yet over. Clearly,  authorities are staged here as you can see. Their guns are drawn. And we're just  waiting to find out whether they have someone inside there as I'm sure they are.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And, yet, we still -- and while this is an active man hunt to get these killers of the highest urgency, we still don't know what in the world, you  know, was the motive for doing this vicious act, descending upon these people.    And this was -- the scene in case people have not been watching all day, this is  a business complex which takes care of disabled people, but there was a private  party there today. Is that right, Shep?   
SMITH: That's right. We know that they believe there is another suspect. We don't know the reason they believe that. But they have told us that they believe  there is another suspect. They have told the residents to shelter in place. They  started at the church. There were then multiple reports in the neighborhood of  shots fired. Then now they are surrounding this home.    They've asked for more air units to come in so they can check buildings around  this area. And as you can see, authorities are surrounding this. What's most  suspicious, of course, is if they want to talk to this person and they have made  an effort to do so knowing what's going on in the area. That person has not come  out, that in and of itself is suspicious. So authorities with guns drawn there  in San Bernardino.   
VAN SUSTEREN: So far have there been --      
SMITH: Authorities with guns drawn there in San Bernardino.  
VAN SUSTEREN: So far have there been any reports about anything that the killers said while they were inside? Did they say anything as they were opening fire?  Any witnesses come out and say anything?   
SMITH: We have no indication that the witness has said anything to authorities. From the very beginning of this, one thing that we have noted, at least from the  reporting of authorities, that no suspects have said anything through the course  of this.    The newest bit of information has come to us from authorities there on scene and  two different witnesses. One of whom was very specific. A witness who was inside  at the time, and was actually shot, was one of the victims in there said that  when she was inside the room, when one of the people who was attending the  meeting became angry. We don't know angry over what, then left that meeting,  went outside, and then came back with a couple of other people and the shooting  began.    Now, they escaped from there. Was there a get away driver? We don't know. Two  people shot and killed at that shootout on San Bernardino Boulevard. Another  person who was wandering the neighborhood said to have been brought into  custody.    That person was described as a suspect. That is not to say that it's definitive  that that person was connected with this scene. We can't say that yet, because  police haven't told us that yet. But we can tell you that police believe that  this active situation happening now is related to the shooting that happened  this morning in San Bernardino.    They surround --   
VAN SUSTEREN: You know what, Shep, it's so peculiar, though, if someone went into a meeting and was angry and left, where do you go out and find three others  to help you go back in so quickly with masks ready to go. You know, it just --  this seems so -- it seems more planned than just sort of anger.   
 SMITH: Well, there is no question. Police have said from the very beginning that this was clearly planned. They are there in tactical gear with  long guns, black masks on their faces according to multiple witnesses. Though  the authorities haven't told us that with certainty, but the authorities didn't  know the race of the people. So it would suggest that their faces were covered.    This is the location of where the business solution system and this is the  Chipotle, right here where the area that's been surrounded. There were shots  fired in this area. And now they have this area surrounded. And live pictures  over here show us where the police are.    So, there are a lot of different scenes happening at one time now, Greta, but to  the best of our knowledge, there is one person for whom they are still looking.  And at this point, they are looking inside this home that authorities have  surrounded.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, while they are doing this manhunt, and hopefully, that this will -- you know, no police officers are going to get injured as they try  to get this person inside the building to come out and talk or submit to arrest.    Is there any information about what this meeting was about? Who was meeting?   
SMITH: Well, there are various reports on that, because, it's our understanding that there were a number of meetings going on at the time. The initial report  was that there were some county officials who had rented this particular  conference room within this center aisle so that they could have some sort of a  Christmas party. Others described it, including authorities, as a meeting where  they would make decisions about things. And that's as specific as they have  been.    Now we know that whoever was in there, escaped and then now they are here. The  background, I think, is going to come together at some point. But you can see  police are moving in right now. They are going past this red colored SUV. The  camera is now moving away to another area. And you can see authorities are back  as far as this for back up.    Something -- they are on the move for something here and they are going in  between these homes. The reports we got a short time ago through our network  news service -- our network news service station, KABC, that residents in the  area, multiple residents have telephoned police and said we see a man running  through the neighborhood jumping fences.    Remember, somebody was taken into custody. But we don't know yet whether that  person was related to this incident. But now they are moving in on this  particular residence.    You can see they have canine dogs here. They are carrying long guns and they've  gone over inside this area that's shaded there by a tarp of sorts. And  authorities have made their way in there. There are more police back here. So  they have three lines of defense. They clearly believe they have someone armed  and dangerous here, Greta. And we will see how this plays out.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And, of course, whoever is in there, if that person won't come out, that person really is -- has nothing to lose.       
SMITH: Well, Greta, they have turned around now and apparently whatever they were looking for in there they didn't find because they wouldn't turn their  backs to that location unless they were sure that whatever they were looking for  was not there.    So they are searching now house to house after these reports of someone in the  neighborhood jumping fences. They believe they have another suspect or that they  may. They weren't sure about the number of suspects from the very beginning  because how do you know if they drove away on their own or if they had a get  away driver waiting? If so, that would mean as many as four. So they're most  likely acting on the side of caution, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Shep, Adam Housley is about a block away from there.   Adam, what do you know?    Adam can't hear us so we'll go to Adam as soon as we connect with him.    You know, Shepard, seem like they had someone isolated in the house so they  thought, but now they're just checking -- you know, sort of randomly going  through the neighborhood. I get the sense that they don't have a target.   
SMITH: Well, you know, that's the sense that we get is that they know somebody is there and running around. They just can't find this somebody. You can see  they are going into side door of a home here. Now you see the satellite disk.  They are making their way through the back fence, going house to house. They are  looking for someone. The question is will they be able to find this person.    And if you are police officers, how would you know? Have they taken somebody  hostage? What's the situation with this person? There is simply no way to know.  They are flying blind in there, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: As we continue to watch this search, this meeting that this person and we don't know if this is linked to it, but the person who got angry and  left, I take it that the person is part of the meeting. They know the identity  of the person or was a public meeting and this was someone they didn't know?   
SMITH: Our understanding is we don't have those specifics. We know that there was a person who was involved in the meeting -- does anybody have that right  through, John Glenn?   
VAN SUSTEREN: What kind of meeting?  
SMITH: Well, you know, it's an environmental health services meeting for the county. The environmental health services meeting was happening inside this  building. This meeting is open to the public. I'm presuming that one can come in  and give comment, but somebody in that meeting became angry and went outside.    Now this is not to suggest that somebody got mad and went outside and got some  friends and went in to shoot it up. The police have been very clear with us,  Greta, that they believe this was planned. You don't just all of a sudden have  tactical gear and long guns.   
VAN SUSTEREN: We now have Adam.   Adam Housley, you are a block away?   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Greta. We are here about a couple of blocks away. You might remember, we were live a little while ago down the  street, but they moved us all back and the reason why is because of that  barricaded situation.    Jesus Gonzalez is here with me. He was walking by. And I know your house, your  wife is not far from where this is taking place. In fact, she is hiding right  now.   
 JESUS GONZALES, NEIGHBOR: Yes, she is in the closet right now. I received a call from her, frantic call from her stating that she heard numerous  gunshots being fired. She was scared to come out or nearby because it sounded so  close to each other. So I'm headed over here down waterman trying to make a  right turn -- left turn on to the intersection. I just started seeing all kinds  of police officers, not letting us in the area.    But, yes, she's -- during the call, I kept hearing the gunshots just going off  everywhere. I'm trying to get home and I'm just being stopped from even getting  to the house. And now it's all coming to the matter that, yes, the suspect --  one of them is apparently dead and there's probably another one and one  barricaded down the street.   
HOUSLEY: Yes, you know, for people that are not from people around here, this makes a quadrant to the city, to the east. So the shooting took place on the  street here, Greta. If you were to kind of go to the right of where the suspect  is barricaded, everybody is moving back from there, obviously. We can't get  anywhere near there.    What's it like knowing that your wife is inside. She's called you. She heard the  initial gunshots. Now she knows that some barricaded nearby and she's in a  closet.   
GONZALES: It's very scary because she works down the street from where this took place. And she has been locked in her office throughout most of the day. And  then to be escorted out, to be sent home and then this was right in front of her  house, it's mind wrecking for her and myself as well.    I just feel -- I feel helpless not being able to be there with her and comfort  her and let her know that everything is going to be all right. Right now, she  can't even talk on the phone. That's how scared she is. So she got.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Adam --  
HOUSLEY: .evacuated from her office, which is near the shooting and then came home to have the shooting in front of her house.   
GONZALES: Yes, sir. Yes, sir.      
VAN SUSTEREN: Adam -- Hey, Adam --  
HOUSLEY: But right now tell me about the situation she is in when you talked to her last.   
GONZALES: She doesn't -- she's inside the closet. She doesn't want to come out of her closet, though nobody has came near the door, but she does hear a lot of  police activity going on around the house. The last she saw or heard was  S.W.A.T. moving in and around in the area.   
HOUSLEY: Yes, Greta, go ahead.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Adam, let me ask you a question about the shooting. Is there any indication who -- the gunshots that the woman heard in the closet. I mean, are  those coming from the police or from the person they are pursuing.    Does anyone know?   
HOUSLEY: I suspect it was the shootout. She heard the actual shootout in front of the house, correct?   
GONZALES: Right. There was a lot around.  
HOUSLEY: Yes. In fact, Greta, I'm going to step away and show you. If you can kind of -- if we move back a bit from the tape to talk to Jesus, but we were  down, gosh, we were good 200 yards down the street or about a half an hour ago  before they moved us back.    When they moved us back, we thought it was just because they were expanding the  scene. You know, how it happens on crime scenes. They tend to move it back a  little bit so they can talk to the witnesses. What they were moving us back for,  we didn't know at the time, was they just had that barricade situation. That's  when I bumped into Jesus who was trying to go in to see his wife because she  just called saying there was a barricaded situation.    You can see the helicopter circled that Lance, our photographer, is on. That's  the official helicopter. The news choppers are getting a video from a much  higher and further back and zoomed in to allow for the clearance to be able to  use law enforcement down in a much lower level.    You can see some of the tactical teams, too, also down here. What they all see  is they pulled some of the teams out and actually went around the block  basically to go over towards that home. But if you were to go right through  those people that Lance is on right now where the stoplight is. That's where  that initial gun battle ended.    It actually started about 150 yards before we were earlier, where the glass was  on the street so it carried on for a couple hundred yards, that initial gun  battle. And then the barricade situation, if you were looking at the gun battle  from our perspective, it would be basically directly to your right, about a  block or two. So it's all taking place here in a quadrant of the city, east of  where the shooting initially took place earlier today. That's a mile and a half  directly behind our camera.    So you are talking about a very compact area. Here comes another cruiser right  now. We'll get out of the way so that they can get by us, Lance.        But you can see, Greta, very fluid situation. A lot of law enforcement.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, Adam, let me go back to Shep.   Shep, sort this out for me. We've got one suspect that's down, shot. We've got  another one that apparently is on the run. There's been a gunfire with him.  Meanwhile, what happened earlier today, where they had this massacre, there was  some sort of meeting and there is a report, but we can't confirm it that someone  was at that meeting or that event, got angry and left and maybe came back and  did something, or maybe it was another planned massacre.    What can you tell me? What -- can you fill any blanks.   
SMITH: Yes, Davidson and Richardson right now, the tactical units are on the move again. You can -- this is less than a half a mile from where that battle  happened that Adam was describing just a few minutes ago.    And these authorities are on the move yet again chasing down leads in this  neighborhood. Here's your background that you wanted.    Denise Peraza, 27 years old, telling the "Los Angeles Times" she said the doors  of the environmental health services office at San Bernardino County opened and  two men dressed in all black, wearing black face masks entered with, quote, "big  old guns," unquote, and started shooting randomly.    Everybody dropped to the floor. It was during their holiday party. Quote,  "Everyone dropped to the floor. It was during the holiday party. The guys opened  fire for 30 seconds, randomly, then paused to reload and began firing again."    Peraza was hiding under a desk when she was shot once in her lower back. She  said the shooters were gone and everything was perfectly silent for about five  minutes so the shooters left, it's all quiet for five minutes. Then suddenly the  doors were pushed open again, but this time, it's law enforcement officers. Lots  of them. And they yelled out, anyone who can move leave immediately and find  cover behind the vehicles.     Peraza said they were then helped into beds of pickup trucks and  taken to safer location. So bigger picture, Greta. Bigger picture, the gunmen  came inform, one man is in the meeting. He leaves angrily, comes back with two  others, three men in there shooting.    The shooters leave. Five minutes later, the authorities came in. During that  time, the shooters left. Since we've had this shootout on the street of San  Bernardino Boulevard, and now tactical units are on the move again.    When that shootout happened and not one, but two people were left dead on the  street, we were witness to both of them. There were reports that another suspect  had been arrested. Though authorities are not saying now that that person was  arrested in connection with this incident. We'll know in time. And at the  moment, they are looking for what they believe to be another person in some way  involved. This situation is not over. Authorities make that perfectly clear.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. As we continue to watch this from the helicopter and all the shots and with Adam on the scene, why did the person supposedly get  angry at a meeting? Did he say anything? And I realize that, you know, there  will be plenty of time to investigate this but while we are waiting for the  police to complete this arrest. Why did he get angry?   
SMITH: We don't have that detail yet. We don't know what the anger was about, if anything. But we can surmise, Greta, that if there was anger, it was part of an  overall plan.    I say that because authorities tell us from the beginning that these people had  planned this and that they were on a mission because they came in, clad and  tactical gear. Had the black face on. They had long guns as described by police  and they know by now exactly what those guns were.    That they came, in they shot for about 30 seconds. This is the fourth or fifth  report from witnesses of about 30 seconds of shooting. Police will confirm that  at some point. And then a five minute gap, and then police come in.    By then, these suspects had clearly fled the scene. In the early going, the  police person -- the police detective in charge said the authorities did not  encounter one suspect. Never had a shootout with any suspects. Never even saw a  suspect. By the time they got into the building and by all accounts, it was just  a matter of three or four minutes, by the time they got there, the suspects were  gone. You can't be that methodical and move so well and so pointedly, without  having a plan in advance and I can assume that that's why police confirm to us  that this was planned and that they came in with a, quote, "purpose."    I don't want to miss the news that's happening now, Greta. You see the man  coming out of the top of this vehicle, surrounded by my count, maybe a dozen  people. And they are working their way down the same street. Another officer  here hidden back behind. Another officer hidden here behind another vehicle.    So as they go on, they are staged all along the way. And, again, we are about 8  or 9 blocks. Correct me if I am wrong, 8 or 9 blocks away, from the spot where  that shootout happened.    And the reason they are doing this, maybe there are others, but one of the  reasons is that witnesses in the neighborhood, multiple witnesses have reported  to authorities that they saw a man running over fence after fence. And as a  result, they've shut down every street. We are sure of it because we can see  these cop cars all along the way. We saw one person being frisked. Anybody who  is on the move now is going to be stopped because they believe they may have  another suspect there.    They could be acting under the best of caution here. But if witnesses and  multiple have reported that they've seen someone jumping fences through the  neighborhood. They clearly have a problem.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Well, let's go back to Adam who is at the scene and has the woman on the phone who is in the closet.    Adam, is that right?   
HOUSLEY: Yes. In fact, Claudia Savariais her name. It's Jesus' wife and she is on the phone -- actually, on Jesus' phone right near.    Claudia, I appreciate you joining us. I know it's kind of a chaotic situation.  Explain your situation right now.   
CLAUDIA SAVARIA, WITNESS: Well, basically, I came home and because, you know, we were told from work we could leave. It happened like three  blocks from where I work. And I came home and I was getting ready to put in my  jammies and whatnot. And I was getting ready to actually, I don't even remember  what I was doing, and all of a sudden I heard noise, you know, I thought it was  fireworks. And then I thought, wait a minute, you know, with the situation going  on, these are not fireworks.    It lasted at least five minutes. There's maybe like 100 rounds. And I just  thought that's the first thing I did is duck. My dogs were going crazy. Right  now, I'm in the closet. I'm actually hiding because I'm really, really scared,  but my co-workers are actually the ones that are keeping me posted. We're on an  email, you know -- email, so, yes, they are the ones that are keeping me  informed.   
HOUSLEY: Well, as I'm talking to you right now, there is a tactical team coming out, Greta. You'll see here in a second, coming out. They are there, kind of  repositioning because we are not far from where this is taking place.    Basically, this is all kind of a triangle where I'm standing to where the  shooting was, to where she is located as well as the ongoing barricaded  situation. So you, right now, you are in a closet. You obviously in a secure  situation.    You know, what have you heard in the last few minutes? Anything at all? Does  anybody come to your door? I know that they have pretty much the area cleared  out. The homes, I'm told, are secure except for the immediate area where this  guy is.   
 SAVARIA: Yes, well, I know that I've actually -- when the shooting was taking place, I remember I had unlocked the door because I was going to do  laundry so I actually went and lock the door, came back to the closet. The only  ones that -- the only thing I know is that there is one suspect at large.    And, again, that's because of my co-workers who are keeping me, you know,  posted. Right now I know nothing. I know nothing. I don't even want to peek out  the window. It's scary.   
HOUSLEY: I bet it is. I mean, we're told by law enforcement that you are in a good spot. Stay where you are, you know, and don't do anything at this point.  Stay in the closet until they come by.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Adam?  
HOUSLEY: Yes, Greta, go ahead.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Just let me confirm, she saw no one but she heard gunshots. And she's in the closet and she's getting information via her phone for co-workers.  Is that right?   
HOUSLEY: Exactly. She is talking to us right now on her husband's phone. He got a hold of her. She's obviously very shaken from what happened. She was -- you  said, Claudia -- you said you were three blocks away from the initial shooting.  Came home, were putting on your pajamas when the shootout happened right in  front of your home, basically and then just a couple of blocks away. Maybe,  depending on how you count blocks. We're not talking very far at all. There's a  barricaded situation. You are inside your closet now.   
SAVARIA: Yes, I am. Actually, I'm -- yes, I'm in my closet. I barely have any reception. My dogs are here with me. Yes, I -- my husband keeps telling me peek  out the window and see if you can see anything.    I don't want to peek out the window because I'm actually scared. It sounded like  it was just right here in my yard.   
HOUSLEY: No, don't peek out the window. That's for sure. I talked to one law enforcement official here and he said that what you are doing is the right  thing. They will come and knock on your door and clear you when the area has  been cleared. So definitely stay where you are and hunker down. You are going to  be all right.   
SAVARIA: Thank you.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Adam, let me go back --      
HOUSLEY: Greta, I'm going to give her back to her husband because obviously she's scared, but you can tell. Do you have any more questions for her?   
VAN SUSTEREN: No.  
HOUSLEY: But it's lost. The phone went dead. OK.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Shep, as we look at this big screen and look at this situation. We know that they suspect that the suspects in the area but that is based on any  particular sightings by the police or is this neighbors who say that they saw  some man jumping through the fences.   
SMITH: Police have said that they believe there is another suspect?  
VAN SUSTEREN: Did they see them?  
SMITH: All of our reporting is that local residents have seen multiple -- let me read it, local residents report seeing a person jumping fences, residents in the  area of San Bernardino Avenue, west of Mountain View should shelter in place as  police activity continues. That's from the San Bernardino police chief.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, now, you know, he may very well be in the area. I'm just trying to sort this out.    Now, this woman we spoke to -- that Adam just spoke to says they are shooting  for five minutes in 100 rounds. I suspect that's quite distorted because of her  fear and questioning what went on.    If I assume that if this man was armed that he is running out of some  ammunition. Would that be something that you would make an assumption especially  if he is jumping fences? I don't know how much ammunition he can carry.   
SMITH: Well, the shooting itself happened from the -- our indication is that the back of that black SUV that we saw in the last hour, the shooting began, there  are three police officers who were in pursuit on San Bernardino Avenue, in  pursuit of this black SUV. The back window was broken out. And the suspect began  firing out the back of that window.    At that point, the authorities were able to shoot and kill the person who was in  the back of the SUV. Whoever was driving the SUV, now apparently is not located.  And authorities are now looking through this neighborhood because they have  reason to believe that the person couldn't have escaped the neighborhood.    At the same time, they get reports from neighbors who say they saw someone  jumping from fence to fence. I'm sure one of the possibilities here, now we  don't have any way of knowing, but one of the possibilities is that whoever they  saw jumping from fence to fence has gone inside a home. Maybe his own home.  Maybe someone else's home.    And now authorities have blocked off all the streets and in these tactical  units, they are going home to home, backyard to backyard, guns drawn, using the  vehicles as shelter, trying to find out who they can find and where.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, let me go to Glen Willwerth who is in the area. And he thinks that he saw this black vehicle, this SUV drive away from the scene of the  shooting.    Glen, thank you for joining us. And tell me where were you when you first  spotted or first knew of this shooting?   
GLEN WILLWERTH, WITNESS: Yes, well, what has happened is my office is actually facing the Inland Regional Center and I saw somebody run by my window so I got  up to go see what was going on. And a guy rushed into my building looking for  shelter saying that they are shooting, they are shooting at everybody.    So I told him and all my employees shut the building down. Bring the doors down,  lock it up. I grabbed my side arm, I holstered up and I went towards where the  shooting was coming from.    There is water trap that was filling up at a water hydrant right by the regional  center. So I posted up after that just to make sure in between my business and  where the shooting was coming from. About another 10 or 15 shots maybe go off  and then I could -- through the trees there is a lot of heavy brush here, I  could see other than I could see somebody getting into a black SUV. The weird  thing was the car just pulled away very slowly and it started coming actually  right at me.    Parking lot and left out that way. They went very calm, very slow. That was kind  of what set it off to me that, yeah, that was whoever that was because everybody  else is fleeing post haste. They were not sitting around.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Now, the person that you saw getting into the SUV, did you see whether or not he or -- I assume it was he was wearing a mask. Only one person  you saw getting into the SUV or were there others?   
WILLWERTH: I couldn't see too much because of all the trees, I could only see movement. I knew there was a body there I couldn't tell, you know, what they  were dressed like, couldn't tell if it was a guy, girl or anything. I could just  see a body, and then I saw the vehicle.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Now, looking at the video that has now been involved in a gun fight with the police, does that -- I assume -- can you determine whether that's  the same vehicle or not?   
WILLWERTH: Well, I didn't see a license plate but the vehicle is identical.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Glenn, thank you very much for joining us. I am going to go back to Shep who has new information, Shep.   
SHEPARD SMITH, FOX NEWS: Yeah, Greta. First of all, the authorities are now gathered near that church, the L-shaped church that we were talking about from  the very beginning. They believe the suspect in the area. This is God's  Apostolic Pentecostal Church. You are seeing this intersection instead, because  authorities have asked that their movement not be shown live on television and  our local stations are accommodating them. Back to the original shooting that  happened this morning, 11:00 a.m. at the County Affairs Building where they were  having a Christmas party.    According to Rick Serrano, who was the FBI and justice reporter for the Los  Angeles Times, the Feds are now theorizing that one of the gunmen was at the  event to make sure that a specific target was there. Police chief confirms the  county group meeting was targeted, not the health center and federal law  enforcement officials say they believe one man angrily left the meeting,  returned with one or two others and started shooting. So just as you were  theorizing earlier, the authorities now theorize that one of the men who was  targeting this particular event or a person in the event went to the event  itself to make sure that the targets were on site, then acted as if he was  leaving angrily, and then immediately came back in with one or two other  suspects. That's how this started.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. You say the Feds theorizes.      
SMITH: That's right. That's all I can tell you is what they tell us.  
VAN SUSTEREN: No, no. I understand, but I am just trying to probe if you have any more information. Did the Feds say based on what a witness said or just  putting two and two together? Because that's a big difference as we try to sort  through this. He may be right even theorizing it based on the information that  we have. But does he have anything beyond his sort of thoughts about what might  have happened?   
SMITH: I don't know.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Witness statement?  
SMITH: They may very well have witness statements. I can tell you. This they took four to five bus loads of employees from the building there and they  interviewed all -- as many of the people who were healthy enough to be  interviewed. Somewhat -- was it 12 or 10 had to go to hospitals who were injured  to one degree or another. They have interviewed enough people. We did hear from  one victim who was shot inside the building, who described how they came in, as  far as how the federal authorities theorized that, I don't have a way to know  how they did that.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I will tell you what's peculiar about it and I mean -- we don't have so much information on this. But if you were casing the joint, to go back  and get your pals to go in and to commit a massacre, if you had a single target,  why are you taking out 13 others? Why don't you take out the target at home or  something? This still to me is very perplexing. There are so many missing facts.   
SMITH: Authorities have not said whether they believe a single individual in that meeting or the members of the meeting in general were the targets. But I do  have new information.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Is it a meeting or Christmas party?  
SMITH: Well, it's a meeting in which they were having a Christmas party according to authorities. I am sure that those details of what happened earlier  will become very clear at some point. At this point, we are looking at a live  scene here in the middle of the street where there is a victim down on the  ground. This is from the original scene. Now authorities are on the move yet  again. If you notice, Greta, their posture has changed. They're not behind  vehicles anymore. They are not using armored vehicles as shelter which suggests  to me they have new information.   
VAN SUSTEREN: You have a big screen, I don't. It doesn't look like they are trying to protect themselves. They look like they're just walking down the  street to me from here. I don't understand why they keep moving from place to  place in this neighborhood -- seem to be walking not in fear or a protective  position to me, but you have a better screen than I do. You have a big one  there.   
SMITH: What we have been watching -- and I am watching from three different choppers. It appears they get information. For instance, they got the  information about reports of a suspect from multiple residents there going from  home to home, as a result they acted in abundance of caution, used the vehicles  as cover. Then they searched all of the area, went in and out of every single  place there. It would appear to us visually that they have made the  determination that whatever they thought might have been dangerous to them at  that point no longer is for they are not using those vehicles as shelter  anymore. And the L-shaped build on the right-hand side that you just saw before  they zoomed in there. That was the church, the Pentecostal Church where they  were sort of staging all of this.    Now they appear to be regrouping. Think of it in the big picture, this morning  14 people were shot and killed inside the center. Since then, they have had a  wild shootout with at least one person dead. They believe that they have another  suspect out there somewhere, residents reporting they see people jumping over  fences. They are doing what they have to do to try to take this person down and  keep people safe.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And just to note to the viewers is that we're monitoring several helicopters' videos and we're being careful not to show anything too graphic. We  do have somewhat of a delay. Shep, going back to look at this scene, I realize  that we are fortunate we get to go up so close but these police don't look like  they are in an active hunt right now. You know, they don't look to me like they  have got their guns drawn and they are chasing somebody.   
SMITH: No. They were but now they are not. And history tells me that you get these reports, you go in and check out the entire area. At some point, those in  charge rule there is no more danger here. Go about your way. And now they are  regrouping. That appears to me what's happened. From people on scene now, it  looks as if these tactical units have made the block, if you will. The report --  the residents report came from this one neighborhood. They went into every home.  They searched every backyard. They searched around the pools and pool houses and  made their way back to where they started, which is this L-shaped church.    And now that's where the SWAT teams are. Back at Richardson and Gould waiting to  see if they find another suspect. Greta, I suppose it's possible they have  gotten everyone there is to get. After all they have been through, they are  continuing to search. They are telling residents to shelter in place.   
VAN SUSTEREN: The only sort of mysterious thing about it is if the active gunfire in that neighborhood that occurred after the SUV was taken down, you  know, is who is involved in that gunfire. Was it with the police or the suspect,  a shootout?   
SMITH: I don't have that -- I have not reported that and I don't have that information. I have heard others say it but Fox News cannot confirm that there  was any shooting after the shootout with police in the SUV. Past then, I am  aware of nothing.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Ok, inside that car, we know that there is one suspect who was shot -- the driver of that SUV is where? No idea? Or is it possible he is in the  car, possible he is in police custody?   
SMITH: Our understanding from police is that they shot the person who was in shooting out the back of the SUV. Don't have information about that. We have  word that there was one person in custody, but there was nothing definitively to  tie this person to the scene. And we know that there is an active search for  other suspects.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I will tell you the person -- what I would very much like first of all, of course, to catch all the suspects and to make that very safe situation.  But talk to people who have survived this to find out what was the motive. What  possessed 1, 2, or 3 people to come in and massacre 14 people, injuring 17 with  a whole range of injuries. I don't know if anyone else is going to die from any  of these gunshot wounds, but in broad daylight in a center that caters to  helping disabled people, disabled -- disadvantaged children.   
SMITH: Greta, we have another scene now. We have an officer with a gun drawn, we have canine looking in this area. They believe someone is here. The authorities  have made that perfectly clear. And they are working to clear every single area,  see this? They are all over this area and searching. This could go on for quite  some time. Remember, it's only 4:39 p.m. out there, coming up on 5 o'clock. The  sun will be setting soon, and they want to find out if there is someone there  who needs to be apprehended before it gets dark out, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Well, we are expecting a news conference any minute now. And we hopefully will get more information about whether or not they believe that they  have all the suspects or whether this other suspect in this L-shaped church or  elsewhere in this neighborhood is on the loose or got away some place else is  armed without any doubt. These suspects are dangerous. They have already  murdered -- massacred 14. So we are going to have that news conference shortly,  but it's just stunning, Shep that we are doing another one of these shootings,  isn't it?   
SMITH: It is. Greta, I have a fascinating firsthand account from a reporter who got caught up in that gunfire on the street. I would like to read a little bit  of this to you. This is from a reporter from the San Bernardino Press Enterprise  who got caught in the middle of it. He says he was driving down San Bernardino  Avenue and just crossed Tippecanoe when I saw several police cars going down San  Bernardino Avenue, so he followed them at a safe distance "Then I was going down  San Bernardino I heard a thundering sound. I didn't recognize the sound as  gunfire. And then I heard something strange. A whizzing sound goes by my car and  I thought, oh my god that could be gunshots and I pulled over." He says I am on  San Bernardino Avenue, and then I see cops running in that direction, just  arriving, maybe six of them, and I hear more gun shots. He goes on, I grab my  camera and taking pictures, taking pictures of cops running with guns and all of  a sudden a bunch more gunshots and then I ran.    I made it to the other side of the street and I take cover behind a blocked wall  on my belly and lying on my stomach behind a little short brick wall, and more  cops come over and the cops start yelling at me and pulls his pistol and asks  what I am doing here, he says I am a reporter. How did you end up here the cop  asked? He says I just got caught up in. This we don't know who is out there.  Take your camera and go. So I ran two houses down just east of Richardson, there  is a family here and I have been hiding in their backyard and the cops are still  looking for the guy. And it could last for hours. So that's one reporter's  account of what happened on San Bernardino Avenue this afternoon.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. And just to confirm, there is no description of any of these three, that their faces were covered, right?   
SMITH: Correct.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Nobody -- you can't tell ethnic background, man, woman, I guess they have confirmed that they are men?   
SMITH: They have. The L.A. Times has just reported that a dispute at a party may have sparked the San Bernardino mass shooting that killed 14 people. I feel like  we will probably get a bunch of reports like this and eventually -- they have  interviewed so many people already.   
VAN SUSTEREN: But I don't know if we are all interviewing the same person and getting the same story about the party. Because, you know, I still don't  understand if it were a party, they probably know who it is. Because parties  usually, unless it's a huge gathering. And one person who gets angry at a party  doesn't go out and suddenly find two people to come back in and kill everybody  unless it was preplanned. If it's preplanned, they had a specific target. You  know, who was the target and why?   
SMITH: They either a target of a person or a target of this body that was meeting in this place.       
SMITH: I don't know. I don't have a way to know. All I know is that authorities say they believe they are theorizing that these who did the shooting put one of  the shooters in the room that that person then said I am angry. Left the room  and came back with the two others and began firing.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I know, but when they start theorizing -- that's the thing that troubles me, Shep is when they tell us, when they give us information that they  are, "theorizing," because their theory could be just as good as mine but it can  be as wild as mine as well. What they need to do is they need to talk to those  who did survive the shooting who are in a condition to talk and find out what  was said.   
SMITH: I know they have interviewed many bus loads of people including all of those that were inside that meeting, all of them who were inside the meeting who  were not so badly injured that they couldn't speak. We know that. We know that  they have interviewed dozens and dozens and dozens of people already. I presume  they wouldn't give this information to a fantastic reporter like Serrano from  the L.A. Times, the FBI and justice reporter if they weren't pretty sure that  their working theory will lead them to what happened here. They're greatest  concern now is figuring out if there is a suspect where this suspect is.   
VAN SUSTEREN: I agree. First, make the streets safe and the area finding the suspect and we can reengineer what happened.   
SMITH: I have just been told, Greta, the 15 minutes from now, the San Bernardino police chief will be speaking to all of us at the news conference. That's at the  top of the hour, 8:00 Eastern, 5:00 p.m. Pacific.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And maybe we will get beyond their quote theorizing. Maybe that's just a bad word that someone used that has sort of gotten me confused in trying  to determine the facts.    But I am joined here on the set with Ted Williams who is a homicide detective  here in D.C. Ted, your thoughts as to whether or not this other suspect out  there -- what they are doing?   
TED WILLIAMS, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Well, Greta, we have a very confusing scene here. I don't know if we can go with theory.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Facts.  
WILLIAMS: One fact is one suspect down and possibly a suspect out there in the community.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And maybe a third.  
WILLIAMS: And a third one. And that is the confusion here. I am very confused how that's a person in a party specifically with masks, etcetera, so that tells  me that there is some planning. Why would somebody in a party go out, get these  men and bring them back in.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And that's why we have make the scene safe there in California, I hope -- I know they will talk to the witnesses who are there. Jonathan Hunt is  at the scene. Jonathan, what -- do you have any information, new information?   
JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS: Well, it appears that this search for a possible third suspect still ongoing. The police chief did say earlier that there were at least  three suspects. We know the two were taken down inside that dark SUV. And as you  can see from the arterial shots, Greta, police are still going through the  streets about two miles where I am right now. About two miles from the initial  shootings incident of the Inland Regional Center appearing to be searching for a  third suspect. Now it may be that that suspect has gone out of the area all  together. Every single piece of information in the five or more hours that is  this has been going on, Greta has been changing by the hour that is why you are  right to look for facts rather than theory here.    We simply do not know the motive -- we are not entirely clear on exactly who or  what group may have been targeted in this shooting. So far too early to start  ascribing any motive to anybody involved in this. But all we can say that this  is an ongoing and tense situation in San Bernardino where the police clearly  believing that there is another suspect out there. They are telling everybody in  the area to stay, to shelter in place, not to come out of their homes. Not to go  anywhere near that area. So they think there is a third suspect out there. That  is the best we have to go on right now.    And theories, possibly, for the coming hours and days but not for right now as  we still have a possible armed suspect on the loose here in San Bernardino,  Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Jonathan, thank you. Of course, we are standing by. There will be a press conference shortly. We will get an update. Let's go to Daryl Bowler.  Daryl joins us. Daryl, where was your wife during the shooting?   
DARYL BOWLER, WITNESS: My wife was in the building next door to where the shooting took place.   
VAN SUSTEREN: And what did she tell you?  
BOWLER: She told me that they were in the office. They heard the fire alarms go off. And they were told by the supervisors to hang around the hallway. I told  her to take her co-workers and go jump into an office and lock the door.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Did she see anyone?  
BOWLER: They didn't see anybody, but two people that they do work with, one were shot in the arm. And one was just grazed and had had her belt actually shot off.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Now, the person who was shot -- coworker, was she at some party or some meeting?   
BOWLER: What's not being said is that it was the San Bernardino County Mental Health Services Christmas Party.   
VAN SUSTEREN: County Mental Health Christmas Party?  
BOWLER: Yes. It was a Christmas party being held.  
VAN SUSTEREN: Only for the people who work there or was the public invited?  
BOWLER: I don't believe it was a public event. It was just San Bernardino Mental Health. They do work with the agency quite a bit. And they were just having  their Christmas party down there in the building three.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Any idea how many people were at this Christmas party?  
BOWLER: No. She didn't tell me. She wasn't a part of that.  
VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Now, I suppose you have been talking to -- or been watching the TV coverage but separate that out for a second. Did your wife hear  anything about anyone getting angry and leaving on the site not from watching  TV?   
BOWLER: She didn't hear anything -- they were just moved across the street to the golf course. Keep them away from everything and without hearing third party  information take everybody's statement without the hubbub of all the talk from  everybody else.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Is there anything -- I am not asking you that she told you that you probably think is new and would be of value?   
BOWLER: That was pretty much it, except for, you know, it was a Christmas party that they aren't talking about on the news.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Daryl, thank you very much for joining us.  
BOWLER: You're welcome.  
VAN SUSTEREN: And we have another witness on the phone joining. I will go back to Adam Housley. Adam, what's new there?   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS: Yeah, Greta, we're with David Espinoza, and in fact, we've -- a couple hundred yards grass on the street to the right just a bit. We  are talking about probably close to a square mile is completely shut down now.  David Espinoza was in this business when the SUV pulled up earlier and you saw  the back window get shot out. You heard the gunshot hit the ground.   
DAVID ESPINOZA, WITNESS: It was scary. We saw the SUV not storming by but 39, 30 miles per hour. And think a regular traffic stop and we just started hearing  gunshots, shattered the window from the back. I don't know who was shooting who  first. But we heard about first one or two gunshots and then they passed us.  That's when I saw the suspects -- guys with black hair at the passed us, and  another 50 feet or so that's when more shots rang out. That's when they drove  towards the light. At the corner that's when the majority of shots started  ringing out all over the place.   
HOUSLEY: There have been reports they were wearing masks, reports of body armor. Anything stands out to you.   
ESPINOZA: I just saw black because they were inside the vehicle. I just saw black shirts. No masks. Just some -- I don't know some scruffy looking face with  beards on them. You know mustaches and stuff. That's all it was. I didn't see  any masks. No masks at all.   
HOUSLEY: What kinds of weapons did you see? I think it was your boss or someone that you worked with saw AK47s, did you see anything?   
ESPINOZA: As far as myself, I did not see weapons. They were just looking back. Maybe they had them but I am pretty sure they did have them but I did not see  the weapons on them. They were looking back, they were shooting at the cops'  house and the cops were shooting back in most likely.   
HOUSLEY: Basically three different shoot locations, first one where the back window went out. Second one by the light and third one past the light. A mile  and a half from here, 14 people were murdered, you guys had shut the factory  down, preparing to go home, talked to some of your co- workers. They didn't know  where to go because no one knew where these guys were. Before you guys could  even leave this happens.   
ESPINOZA: This happened right in front of us it was scary looking to be down the street. We were in the shutdown mode and security mode and checking everything  everywhere and just being cautious.   
HOUSLEY: What's it like now to know that the barricade situation is over here. You still have the possibility of the suspects out there. We don't really know  everything. We have press conference happen here shortly hopefully get some more  information. You have a lot going on and basically a one to two mile square  area.   
ESPINOZA: Yes, yes. That's correct. It's just something that we should be -- everybody should be cautious about. I am pretty sure everybody was watching the  news like I was coming down here and being cautious about everything. And never  thought it was going to happen in front of us here in the building.   
HOUSLEY: Sorry to meet under these circumstances. Greta, you can hear tactical team came by earlier. We are told -- I spoke to him again. She is still inside  that closet. Going to stay there and the sheriff actually told people now  officially to remain hunkered down until they come to the door. She is still in  her closet with the dogs. You can hear the helicopters above as well, so still a  very active location out here. They have pushed back people in all directions.  We have seen them bring cars out. Car loads of people in some of these  businesses down here.    Maybe living nearby that has been evacuated as well. So as the night falls here  in San Bernardino, still very active understandably. Flashlight is where the  shootout ended. It started about where this white SUV is, the second SUV in our  picture, and then to the right of there. Not too far is where the other  situation is taking place, a mile and a half to the east of where the murders  took place earlier today, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, Adam. Let's go back to Ted Williams, former detective here in D.C. Ted, I assume that these were the ones out of them very fast.   
WILLIAMS: Shooting like that, you want to immediately leave the scene. But it seems as though for witness said he saw the vehicle, the SUV not panicked. These  seemed like professionally organized people who knew what they were doing, if in  fact, this SUV is the one that's involved in the shooting.   
VAN SUSTEREN: There is only so much uncertainty at this when we are in the midst of this. It could be that this is 100 percent right and 100 percent the right  people. There will be a press conference, and we are going to hear shortly, but  I hope we will fill in more -- making the area safe is the most important thing.  But getting the witness statements, those were inside the rooms and survived  horrendous massacre will be important.   
WILLIAMS: That's going to be very significant. What did people see that was in that room? You must remember when there is a lot of people see different things.   
VAN SUSTEREN: If it's a Christmas party it might have been someone who is invited. I assume that they are going to know a lot more.   
WILLIAMS: Absolutely. They told the authorities a lot more. Greta, I have to believe along that route, the videos cameras and -- remember, tinted glass.  Authorities, 1, 2, or 3 or 4 individuals involved or more.   
VAN SUSTEREN: If there are two dead, we don't know that confirmed in the SUV and surveillance camera shows that there were two involved in this and not three.  But right now what a frightened community. And she headed for the closet.   
WILLIAMS: This is a quiet day out in California, and then for, this to erupt and then you have 14 people dead, I mean, this is so troubling. But the question is,  the motive. What was it? When you have got a person in the party like this, who  is more likely than not that somebody in that party knew the person who perhaps  left there upset and angry.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Usually, you know, there is no sort of usual for any particular crime, but when it's like one person goes into Sandy Hook, one person goes into  Planned Parenthood. These people and they are usually very evil people but they  are very disturbed on top of it, when you have two people or three people, it's  a whole another dynamic. This is planned. This is a completely different  environment, a different crime. When they come in and shoot up the area, these  are different types of killers.   
WILLIAMS: Different type of killers. Remember, it is alleged that they were wearing tactical gear. So if they are wearing tactical gear that means it was  planned. I have to believe that the person who was initially in the party who if  he was involved and went out and got other people that he was possibly not  wearing tactical gear, because he would have stood out in the party.   
VAN SUSTEREN: If he was angry. You know, tying the people to the crime is not going to be particularly difficult because he left shell casings behind. With  the shell casings on the scene and presumably if they are shooting again at the  police they are leaving shell casings that will match.   
WILLIAMS: Excellent and wisely said. Whatever is on that scene, it's now a crime scene, that SUV, it's a crime scene, and what our law enforcement must do now is  show a nexus between the crime scene and the SUV.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Can I just do one thing and just take one second to thank law enforcement. You know, the law enforcement in San Bernardino tonight, they ran  to the danger. They didn't run away from the danger. And all those people who  are critical of the police in this country, let us not forget that every single  one of those officers is at risk tonight. It's getting dark and they are running  through it, and these people have nothing to lose by killing the police  officers. And all their families are at home watching, worrying about the police  officers, and there they are out there trying to protect the community. So if  anyone is thinking about the police tonight, think about this, they are all at  risk out there tonight and they are doing their job for the community.   
WILLIAMS: Thank you, Greta for saying that. That is absolutely correct. Thank you.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Let me go to Shep. Shep, oh, Bret Kelman is joining us.  
BRET KELMAN, DESERT SUN: Yes. I am on the ground in San Bernardino waiting for a press conference to start that should give us the latest information in the  shooting, both the police chief and the sheriff are expected here any minute.  They will probably give us some information on the resolution of a police chase,  the shootout, lots of information about how many suspects is still outstanding  and how many of them caught.   
VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you. Bret is with the Desert Sun. We are standing by for that press conference. And look at all those flashing lights, all the police  responding to the scene. I bet a lot came in from off duty, too.   
WILLIAMS: But I do thank you for what you had to say about law enforcement. There are a lot of brave men and women who ran to that scene, Greta.   
VAN SUSTEREN: All right, Fox is going to keep up with the live coverage. We are going to close up. We're waiting for this press conference, but we're going to  continue to have live coverage on Fox News. Shep has been pounding this story  all day long, knows it better than anybody else is going to be taking over the  coverage from here. But you can see they are lining up for the press conference.  That's all for On the Record, Shepard Smith and the O'Reilly Factor start right  now.   
