  
BILL O'REILLY, FOX NEWS HOST: Hi, I'm Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching us tonight.    We have a domestic terror situation unfolding in southern California. All  throughout this hour THE FACTOR will report on the situation which is changing  by the minute.    At 8:00 Eastern time here is what we know in stone. At about 11:00 Pacific time  this morning the Environmental Health Services office of San Bernardino County  was invaded by gunmen. According to eyewitness Denise Perazawho was shot  in the back and wounded, two men with large caliber weapons opened fire on a  group of people and they shot for 30 seconds straight. Reloaded, and fired  again.    At this point, 14 innocent folks are dead, 17 others wounded. Police shot one of  the perpetrators hours later as somebody fled in an SUV. We still don't know how  many people were in there. We should get updated information momentarily.    Now, a hunt is on for at least one other suspect, but, again, we don't know much  about that. The dramatic events were broadcast live to the nation on cable TV  outlets as once again America is shaken by senseless violence.    We are awaiting a press conference from San Bernardino County and when that  begins we will go to it but, first, Adam Housley has been covering the story all  day and has an eyewitness with him, I understand. Adam, set it up for us,  please.   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Bill, I'm going to set it up first and an eyewitness is going to come over here in a second.    Right now, I can tell you this is basically where -- not far from us is where  the barricade is taking place -- the search is taking place. Right behind me  though as I step away -- that's where the shootout was. So for those who maybe  didn't follow this or just getting what happened here, the shootout came here  about two and a half hours ago or so. Black SUV was coming down the street,  heading toward the street called Richardson. At that point a back window was  shot out of the SUV. We don't know if that was coming from the inside or from  the police officers that were in the chase. It was a slow speed chase really as  southern California goes -- 35, 40 miles an hour only.    And then the police officers returned fire. It continued on to where the  stoplight is, you can see as the night falls here, it's starting to get dark.  It's just passed that stop light where it came to an end where two suspects were  shot and killed.    We do know that basically the area all within the police tape where we are  located about a mile square, Bill, is completely shutdown. They have been  evacuating people out basically for the last two and a half hours that we have  been here.    We do know people that are inside that are barricaded in rooms. One woman we  spoke to earlier is in her closet. She's still there with her dog. We just spoke  to her on the phone. And that is the situation. The helicopters continue to  circle as well.    So, Bill, as you can tell it's very fluid out here. You know the situation.  That's the situation we are in.   
O'REILLY: Ok. This is exactly what happened in the Boston Marathon case when they were chasing the Tsarnaev brothers and we had to be live and things can  happen.    Now, you just said that two suspects were shot by police. We're getting  conflicting reports on that. Are you positive it was two shot in the SUV?   
HOUSLEY: We're not positive, Bill. As you know again, very fluid. In fact David's coming over right now, the witness, I'm going to have him tell you what  he saw because what's amazing about this, Bill, is you have a situation a mile  and a half from here where the actual murders took place, literally if I was to  drive straight through this camera a mile and a half, that's where the initial  14 people were killed. And then the shootout happened here.    David come on in. David was in this building right here, Bill. And so these guys  were on lockdown, they were actually shutting the factory down. I mean the whole  town of San Bernardino is shut down. We're talking a pretty big city. And people  were going home and at the same time a lot of the streets were empty as more  units come out right now. There's an unmarked coming out.    David, explain to Bill what did you see you? I mean you were outside and all of  a sudden you heard the gunfire.   
DAVID, WITNESS: Yes. We just heard the gunfire, a black SUV driving fast by in front of us. The windows were breaking from the back. I don't know if the  suspects were shooting back at the cops or cops shooting back at them. But we  just heard shots and we just took cover. Just took cover in back of the car that  was in front of us.    And then when they passed us, when they passed us, maybe about 30 or 40 feet  after they passed us, more shots rang out and that's when we really took cover  good. When they passed us that's when I saw the suspect.   
HOUSLEY: Right. You said you saw them. They had scruffy faces --  
DAVID: Scruffy faces, black -- short black hair. And they were looking back. I did not see if they were pointing at something at the cops. But most likely they  were because -- they were getting shot at.   
HOUSLEY: And then all throughout the day we heard and you probably heard it here because you guys were listening and watching television as well that they were  wearing black and that they looking for three men wearing all black. And that's  what you saw?   
DAVID: Yes, that's what I saw. I saw them, they had like black shirts on or black sweaters on or something black.   
HOUSLEY: So there's some conflicting reports whether or not -- and we're waiting for a press conference and hopefully they'll tell us whether two were killed  there or not. How many did you see inside that SUV.   
DAVID: I saw two. I don't know if there was a third one in the back. I don't know but I only saw two in the front. I saw two in the front.   
HOUSLEY: Two in the front. I want you to give me an idea, too. As you see all this police activity, you saw the shootout right in front of you only a few feet  away -- what's that kind of feel like?    David: It's like something surreal, like it's not happening. It's you see this  in movies or you see this at other places and what's happening in the world or  in our country here and now it's happening here in front of the media or in  front of us here and it's unbelievable.   
HOUSLEY: Right. So Bill as you can tell, we hope that that press conference will helped clear some of the things when you ask officers here.   
O'REILLY: All right. I have got a couple of questions for David. I've got a couple of questions for David.   
DAVID: Yes, sure. Of course. Go ahead.  
O'REILLY: All right. First of all, did you see any bodies being removed or any people being removed from the SUV after the shootout? Did they take away, the  police take away anybody from the car?   
HOUSLEY: You were down there for a while. Did you see -- any bodies been pulled out of that SUV before you as you're moved backed?   
DAVID: No, no. The first shootings happened here. The main shooting --  
HOUSLEY: 100 yards further?  
DAVID: At least -- no, I didn't get to see any of that.  
HOUSLEY: Ok. The main shooting is the Bill it was actually three spots. Just about maybe 100 yards from where I'm at that's where the first window was shot  out and right in front of David is where the main, second main shootout happened  and then about 100 yards past David, 150 yards past David is where it ended. So  you had it right in the middle of the three locations?   
DAVID: Yes.  
HOUSLEY: Do you have another question -- Bill?  
O'REILLY: No, thank you, David. We appreciate that. I have got a couple of questions are for you, Adam.   
HOUSLEY: Sure.  
O'REILLY: Now, the law enforcement at this point has to know who these guys are. They've had them in custody I think for about two hours now, would that be  accurate -- two hours?   
HOUSLEY: Yes, roughly. Roughly two hours.  
O'REILLY: All right. So if they are not both dead and even if they are dead they probably know who they are. Law enforcement is not really talking to you or any  other reporters. All the information was funneling through these press  conferences, correct?   
HOUSLEY: Correct. I mean they have given us little bits and pieces. I will give you an example. Before this -- when we first heard about this chase we were over  at a different location with a couple of other correspondents based on some  railroad tracks Bill that was directly across from where the shooting took  place. We were there by ourselves actually, and a still photographer.    When we were there I had someone tell me hey, you know, we're looking for three  guys -- we have to go with the idea we are looking for three men with tactical  gear and they said AK 47s. That's when the law enforcement guy said that's what  we are looking for.    Now, if they officially wouldn't say that, so then as I'm there. I get tipped  off in text, hey we are in chase. We are in chase -- a black SUV. And so right  away within a second of me getting that text where we were was basically the  main center of where the FBI was, the bomb squads teams were right where we were  by those railroad tracks they took off. I mean it was like unit, unit, unit --  go, go, go. The tactical teams took off. We jumped in the SUV, we drove here.    So they had given us a little bit of information but yes, a lot of the main  stuff are there two bodies in the SUV that have been pulled out. I mean stuff  like that. Are there just three suspects? They are not narrowing it down for us.  We are getting little bits and pieces basically.   
O'REILLY: Now, right now is there a dragnet by you? Are there police helicopters all over the place and are there house-to-house searches going on right at this  moment?   
HOUSLEY: Absolutely. The house-to-house searches you can no longer see because we got moved back. There is only one helicopter though. And you are not going to  see it tonight unfortunately. The news helicopters which you get some of the  video on from the air -- they have been moved back up to get out of the way and  of course at times are told not to show certain scenes especially if it was a  tactical situation and they listen, of course, and follow law enforcement in  that situation.    So there is one helicopter up we know that is law enforcement related. And there  are, yes, house to house searches going on. We do know, Bill -- I talked to one  woman earlier on the phone before her phone went dead, she has been in the  closet now for two hours since she heard the initial gunfire with her dogs. And  she has been told to hunker down.   
O'REILLY: Yes, everybody's frightened but as an experienced reporter, you know and I know that if there was a dragnet going on there would be more than one  police helicopter in the air and the lights would be on, the spotlights would be  on and there would be much more intensity even where you are right now. There  would be sirens going in and out.       
O'REILLY: Because that's the way that these things are conducted. It tells me that I think the police know what the disposition of the case is going to be.  That's speculation -- I don't like to do it but it's educated speculation. You  just don't have one chopper on a crime of this magnitude, you have got five.  Because it's L.A. County, L.A. County, it's San Bernardino County, it's FBI,  it's a whole bunch -- it's a joint force trying to get these guys under control.  Correct?   
HOUSLEY: Yes. It's a massive force. I mean I would agree with what you're saying about the dragnet situation. The only caveat I might bring in Bill is obviously  in a situation like this if there are only three main suspects, if two of them  are dead behind me and there's some speculation here and there is one barricaded  -- there's a whole another line of cop cars will be coming in here in a second  you will see over my shoulder.    If that is the case, there are just three suspects you know they're going to be  looking at possible other connections here. Where did they get the weapons from?  Are there other people maybe not as involved obviously not as involved as active  shooters? So you do have that dragnet taking place as well.    And in this situation I think what they are trying to do is that ensure that  they have -- if there were three, if they have those three completely either  surrounded in one house and dead or if they are missing somebody. There has been  a lot of different calls coming in as you know Bill in these different  situations. I have heard them on the scanner myself today of so and so running  this way, so and so running that way. They have to really respond to those, too.   
O'REILLY: Absolutely. Now what are the warnings to the people in the community? That will tip you off as well as to the intensity of right now. What are the  warnings? Are they saying you can't go out of your house now? You can't drive on  the street now? What are they saying?   
HOUSLEY: Well, San Bernardino is a big area. I will say the streets that I have seen are not as crowded as they normally are this time of night. A lot of people  staying in, watching what's happening, staying out of the fray.    I will say that beyond this police tape and this police tape -- this basically  quadrant of an area, it's up -- I'd say a mile square -- it's a massive area  they've now moved back to with the shootout being right there and the search  basically being right over there.    That whole area people have been told to stay in place. They have been told to  stay in place like that woman who was in the closet.   
O'REILLY: Right.  
HOUSLEY: The sheriff has said, stay in place, we'll come to your door and we'll tell you when it's safe.   
O'REILLY: Through the local news, the authorities have said in this area where you are, don't go outside. They have issued an order not to go outside -- is  that correct?   
HOUSLEY: Exactly. And also, the reason why this press conference is late, too, Bill, I was told by federal source that I'm close with is that this obviously  changed. They wanted to have the 8:00 Eastern press conference. This whole  situation and the ongoing situation that apparently is taking place with the  barricade, if that, again, is still ongoing, that is what's pushing them back a  bit. This is very fluid as you know, Bill.   
O'REILLY: Ok. So they are trying to compile the new information to bring it to the nation.    Now, Adam, I would like you to stand by, obviously we are going to go back to  you when anything happens.    But I want to bring in two people right now who are experts in counter  terrorism. Have some information that's important. First is Aaron Cohen in Los  Angeles and then Jim Hanson in Washington, D.C.    Jim, let me begin with you because you know something about one of the suspects  I understand? Tell us.   
JIM HANSON, CENTER FOR SECURITY POLICY: Across the police scanners, Bill, the name Faruq Saeed came out as the suspect who went into this meeting/holiday  party, left angrily and they believed was the one who came back and initiated  the shooting.   
O'REILLY: Do we know anything about Faruq Saeed? Do we know anything about him?  
HANSON: There is a lot of work being done. It's not that uncommon of name. So there's work being done to see if there are any connections between him, where  he may be going to mosque, are there any other indicators that this was an  Islamist jihadist type of attack.   
O'REILLY: All right. We have got to be very careful here, Mr. Cohen -- very, very careful. If it is a terrorist attack generated by fanatical Muslims it  becomes an international Paris-type story with implications for the President of  the United States on down. So we don't want to speculate.    But, do you have any information for us at all tonight, Mr. Cohen?   
AARON COHEN, SECURITY EXPERT: I train active shooter law enforcement around the country -- Bill. And my sources have also said that there has been an Islamic  name that was released and that's been given out as far as one of the attackers.  Compounded with the fact that the attackers went to a specific place for a  specific reason with the type of tactical gear that would allow them to create  maximum damage and then leave also leads my sources to tell me that this could  be potential international-related terror attack due to those specific things  that I'm hearing from my sources on the ground. Again, these are people that I  train specifically an active shooter -- so this is what I'm hearing.   
O'REILLY: Ok. The problem with the story right now is that San Bernardino County, well, a fairly sophisticated area, is not New York City or Los Angeles  or Washington. And this facility that these men intruded upon, this is kind of  just a regular neighborhood facility. It doesn't look like, you know, a  statement that ISIS would make or something like that.    Again, we are speculating but I wanted to get both of your opinions on that.  First you -- Mr. Hanson.   
HANSON: Bill, America is one giant soft target. So the idea if ISIS wants to create the most fear, hitting us in places that are not iconic is the best way  to do it. It brings everyone into play and we are all now in play.    So I think if this is an attack and they don't have to be tied to ISIS. They can  be inspired by ISIS. They can just be people who believe that jihad commands  them to kill the infidels and doing that anywhere even if they are doing it in  the furtherance of a personal beef, leads them to paradise and that's what they  are looking for.   
O'REILLY: Ok. Now, Mr. Cohen, we were going to do a report tonight with Rudy Giuliani which of course we are not doing now because of the breaking news  situation that said a study out of George Washington University in Washington,  D.C. pinpointed 300 social media people affiliated with ISIS and 71 ISIS people  have been arrested in the U.S.A., those 300 in America as well.    So, they are already here. And I think all the counter terrorism experts know  that, correct?   
COHEN: That's absolutely correct, Bill. The online radicalization has been ongoing for several years. ISIS is a terrorist group that has mastered the use  of the Internet just the same way celebrities use it to create, you know, their  careers in the media for music.    And what we have seen now is how easy it is for ISIS to almost one up al Qaeda.  Al Qaeda is not going to be able to outdo 9/11. But ISIS knows that they can be  very successful with incredible low sophistication and that there is a pool of  potential talent for them to tap into right here in this country against these  soft targets like we're seeing in San Bernardino.   
O'REILLY: Yes. Well, we don't want to -- again, we don't want to carry it to a conclusion because we don't know.    But, I want to get back to Faruq Saeed, Mr. Hanson. You heard the name again  over police transmissions, correct?   
HANSON: Yes. I did not hear it but the sources we spoke to who reported that from L.A. said that was the name that went across the police networks and that  was how they started the search for the suspects.   
O'REILLY: Ok. What sources were they?  
HANSON: They are focused in law enforcement. I don't have their names that I can give you right now.   
O'REILLY: If that information filtered it's way to you, how did that happen?  
HANSON: That came across because the people who heard it were on the scanners, part of the actual tactical effort to find these shooters.   
O'REILLY: Ok. But how would you know that?  
HANSON: I know that because we spoke to them.  
O'REILLY: And you spoke to them, why?  
HANSON: Because we were attempting to find out A, were there any names in play and B once we could get a name like this, was there any way we could find any  social media or other things that might lead us to believe that he left a  suicide note or he did one of the other indicators of jihadist attack. They are  prone to doing those final video episodes.   
O'REILLY: All right. So when you heard the name Faruq Saeed? Did you check him, did you run him down, did you find anything about him?   
HANSON: We have not yet. Like I said it's a common enough name that no one that I'm aware of has yet come to a definitive answer. At this point, it's only a  name that was heard over the police scanner. It has not been confirmed. Perhaps  at the press conference they might do that.   
O'REILLY: No. But I mean look, everybody is trying to find out whether this is a domestic terrorism like Charleston, South Carolina where just an irrational,  crazy person goes in and shoots up a church full of people; or whether it's  Islamic terrorism because then the story becomes international.    It becomes a story where, ok, here they come -- all right. This is number one.  And, we have some information I want to give to the folks right now. According  to the "Washington Post", they are reporting this evening that a local law  enforcement official confirms that ATF agents found what is believed to be a  pipe bomb on one of the suspects. The officials said the FBI is also looking  into that case.    So now we have Mr. Cohen, reports of big weapons, gear, that I guess you could  buy anywhere and a pipe bomb which I guess you could make. Does that give you  any clues at all?   
COHEN: Yes, it gives me a lot of clues. One, if you look at the actual vehicle takedown that was transpiring when the bear cats were blocking in the SUV. It  was obvious from watching the footage as well as from my sources and, again,  these are I have been very close to southern California law enforcement for many  years and I get text messages from these guys because they want to make sure  some of this information gets out in their own quiet way if you will because we  communicate Bill in the tactical community.    I have been a reserve deputy for nine years and a SWAT instructor. We are always  texting and keeping abroad. So the SUV -- the tactics that were being deployed  were specifically tailored for what we call a slow and deliberate clear which  meant that there was an explosive or a very strong possibility of an explosive  on one of those persons in the vehicle.    And from my sources, I'm hearing it was two suspects in the vehicle, who had  been engaged in by law enforcement. You can tell from the shrapnel and the  bullet holes in the front windshield, Bill and that the robotics and that the  clears were dedicated at removing an actual improvised explosive device from one  of the suspects in that vehicle.   
O'REILLY: Does this have the earmarks or fingerprints of any particular operational organization? All right. So I'm asking the question again because  you have a dual scenario here. You can have homegrown terrorists that we saw in  Boston, Charleston -- where they are just haters and they go in and they kill.    And then you have the organized Islamic jihadists. Does this tell you anything,  Mr. Cohen, the information that you have given us? Does it lead to one way or  the other?   
COHEN: Yes, it does, Bill, it leads me to believe that there is a very strong connection in my professional opinion to Islamic motivated international terror.  The reason why is because it has the same prints as the Bataclan-style attack  where Salah Abdeslam opened fire on a group of innocents well-prepared,  well-equipped armed with Kalashnikov rifles that are very easy to get in and  then left and retreated to Belgium where he then was able to either continue on  with carrying our terror or until he was engaged.    So you have this group of subjects who performed a very similar type of attack.  They went in. They opened fire and they left and they did it, Bill, in under  five minutes. That means there's premeditation.   
O'REILLY: You are drawing parallels from San Bernardino to Paris, Mr. Cohen. That's what you are doing right now?   
COHEN: Absolutely. Absolutely.  
O'REILLY: Do you concur, Mr. Hanson?  
HANSON: Without a doubt. I think this absolutely has the earmarks of same type of attack. But even more scary, Bill, is the fact that this has the ability to  happen anywhere. This doesn't have to be internationally inspired because they  have seen how to do it. They know how to do it.    We had the Boston Marathon guys. We had Major Hasan at Fort Hood. This has  happened before in the United States. But now we have got foreign groups like  ISIS calling for it to happen, inspiring people in the United States who are  already here whether they infiltrated as ISIS operatives or whether they simply  were radicalized in a mosque that's preaching jihad or did it themselves online.    They could be anywhere. They are among us. And consequently that makes all  Americans targets. And this is going to become a bigger problem and more of this  is going to happen.   
O'REILLY: Yes. And it's impossible to stop in a free society. But if these individuals who killed the 14 people and wounded 17 others are found to have  ISIS ties. And you know, obviously they will go over their computers, they'll  look at their backgrounds, they'll find out how they got in here, who they  associated with. The FBI is excellent at that.    Then, the pressure now becomes on more to take ISIS off the map. So that's that  story. If it's a Boston Marathon two crazy brothers who think they are going to  kill innocent people and advance the cause of jihad then the story takers on  another angle in the sense that you can't stop it in a free society. You just  can't. And unfortunately that is what the case is.    Now, Mr. Cohen, you have made your reputation in Israel, correct?   
COHEN: Correct. I served in Israel's counter terror unit.  
O'REILLY: So Israel is a country that every single day of its existence, there could be a terror attack. The people of Israel know that. Do they have a  different mentality than we Americans have?   
COHEN: Yes they do. Israelis regardless of where they stand politically understand the motivation of radically fundamental ideologues who can't be  talked to normally because when you are dealing with that type of ideology,  there is no logic. It's a delusional mentality.    And regardless of where Israelis stand, national security is always taken  seriously, everybody serves in the military. Citizens when permitted often carry  weapons. We rely on our citizenry in Israel to respond as we have seen with all  these crazy knife attacks in the last month. And it's because Israel is a very  socially security-conscious society that we don't have as much terrorism as  there would be if they weren't the way we were in Israel.   
O'REILLY: All right. So let me paraphrase. You are saying because Israelis, who are pretty robust in their political differences because they all come together  on this issue protecting themselves from terrorism, it's easier for the  government to do that while we, in America, are divided along ideological lines  on how to attack ISIS, what to do with the jihad.    As you both know our president won't even mention the word "jihad". So it makes  it more difficult for the country to unite around a single strategy to protect  ourselves. Would that be an accurate assessment, Mr. Hanson?   
HANSON: It is absolutely the problem -- Bill. It is the difficulty of a free democratic society that does not feel as under siege as the Israelis do. But  there are things we can do. The President, at this point, has to be told in no  uncertain terms his job is to kill ISIS and to cut down the black flag as the  Center for Security Policy's plan to kill ISIS calls for.    But we can also do things here in the United States. They are difficult, they  are painful but they need to be done. We commissioned a study and published it  in a peer review journal of 100 mosques in the United States. Out of those  randomly chosen mosques 80 of them were either preaching jihad or had jihadist  literature available.    Those things are not compatible with a free society. And at some point the  safety of our citizens demand that it's not freedom of religion, if the religion  you're preaching is preaching violence. And that's something we need to do.   
O'REILLY: All right. Mr. Cohen, I'll give you the last word on it.  
COHEN: Well, there's three things we need to do here Bill. We have to call this thing what it is and I absolutely agree with the gentlemen from the center. Call  this thing what it is, which is Islamic fundamental radicalized terrorism. Two,  get aggressive overseas. And three, start to get aggressive with our  preventative measures here in the United States. Otherwise, we are going to see  a lot more of what we saw today in San Bernardino.   
O'REILLY: All right. And again we are speculating to some extent based upon the information that's coming in here. So, we are not drawing any conclusions or  saying anything in stone. We're just having a discussion about where the  investigation has led right now.    On that note, let's go to Fox News correspondents Trace Gallagher who's  monitoring the investigation in Los Angeles; and Jonathan Hunt who is near the  Inland Regional Center where the rampage took place. Anything new on your front  -- Jonathan?   
JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bill. Right now there appear to be two main fronts here. One is the ongoing search for a possible third suspect as  police continue to go down a couple of streets, a couple of miles from me here  in San Bernardino. Now, separately, we understand that law enforcement officials  are currently carrying out search warrants on at least one residence in Redlands  -- that is right next door to San Bernardino.    So two active scenes right now as they continue the search for one possible  suspect and continue the search for a motive in this rampage that killed at  least 14 people and we simply at this stage, according to all law enforcement  officials we have spoken to have no clear motive. Although there are some  indications, officials have been saying, Bill, according to reports coming from  a very reliable reporter, at the L.A. Times that this may have all started  simply with an argument at this holiday party that we understand was going on at  the Inland Regional Center.   
O'REILLY: All right. But if that's true these guys certainly had lot of things prepared to bring in these kinds of weapons and the garb and everything like  that.   
HUNT: Yes. The suggestion, Bill is that there may have been an argument between two people. That, one of those persons then left returned with at least one  accomplice, dressed as we now know in black wearing these black masks according  to witnesses with these fairly heavy duty weapons. So yes it would appear that  there was some planning involved if that indeed was the case.   
O'REILLY: Right. And if the pipe bomb report is true, you just don't conjure up the pipe bomb. I mean you've got it around.    Trace, what do you have for us tonight?   
TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, I just want to expound on what Jonathan is saying there, Bill, we are still trying to vet this "L.A. Times"  report. But the theory here is that this was rented out, this conference room  that the shooting happened at was actually rented out by the County Health  Department if San Bernardino. It was kind of a slash Christmas party also kind  of an awards banquet.    And the report is that this person was actually inside the conference room and  then left after an angry altercation and then came back inside. But the question  you raise is a very good one, Bill, which is if you come back in with two other  shooters and you shoot the place up there was clearly an active plan to get out  of this building. Because this building at the complex at the regional center  was the only one that was not secured so what happened is you had shooters go  in. They opened fire. They reloaded, opened fire again and were able to leave  the building because there was no security there.    Got in, apparently to that black SUV, and lingered in that area for the better  part of four hours because it was four hours between the shooting and the  shootout on the open street happened.   
O'REILLY: Sure, they live in the area. And they are not real smart anyway. I mean they go out in broad daylight in a car that was described to the  authorities and it didn't take them long to get nailed down.    Now it's about four minutes to the press conference in San Bernardino. And we're  hoping that they can advance the story and give us at least what they know about  the perps. I mean that's the key right now.    The people who are hurt, the 17 people we're monitoring them -- they're in  hospitals all across the area. We talked to a man -- this is very interesting  story -- Carlos Ortiz and his son Kevin were shot three times. Kevin is in  stable condition. Mr. Ortiz was going to join us but they just let him in to see  his son for the first time. Now Kevin called his father Carlos and described  what was going on. That these guys there were two gunmen and this coincides with  what we told you at the top of the program with the other eyewitness who was  shot in the back.    And these guys just calmly walked in and started mowing people down and firing  all over the place. And then reloaded and started to fire again. Anyway, we wish  Kevin Ortiz the best. We hope that his injuries aren't too grievous. But the  victims are going to be monitored and that will be a big story for tomorrow. For  tonight, we're trying to find out who these guys are. And then as I said if it  is a terrorist component, Islamic, that just blows this whole thing up into  another Paris situation where the President is under siege already and that  becomes a big international story where is if it is just a local beef, then it's  a local beef, it gets down into Charleston, it gets down into Fort Hood and  that.    Now, the "The Washington Post" is reporting also that federal law enforcement  officials are saying, they do not believe the shooting, they do not believe the  shooting is an act of international terrorism. Okay. These are initial reports  that are coming out, which is why I warned everybody that speculating is very  difficult. But, we have a name and the name is obviously a name that was on the  police band and it is a Muslim name. An Arab name. So, we're going to wait.  We're going to take a deep breath and we are hoping this press conference will  materialize shortly. I want to recap on what has happened here.    About is 1:00 Pacific Time this morning, two gunmen, at least, went in to the  San Bernardino Community Center where they have rehab for people with  disabilities and they also rent out rooms. Where there are a couple of parties  going on. Apparently the men shot up one party. We don't know why. We don't know  what the motive is. They fled.    And Adam Housley, I guess there is new information on this. Adam, what do you  have?   
ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bill. I just got off with federal law enforcement sources, they tell me, the third suspect is a female.  That kind of throws a little bit of a wrinkle in here. We didn't know what to  expect of it as you know. Trying to get a confirmation on the name or type of  name. We are getting some speculation on that as well. But won't go on that  until we get more information on it. But we're told a third suspect is a female.  They are going to address this I'm told in the press conference here very  shortly as you have been alluding too. But we had heard that there might have  been this third suspect, the female being looked for held up in a new home. And  now we are being told that it is a female and that they're going to hopefully  asked more information for us when that press conference takes place, Bill.   
O'REILLY: Okay. Do we know if the female still at large?  
HOUSLEY: The person I spoke to said, this person said that they believe that they were still at large. Again this is -- the federal agencies are all trying  to work together. You know, the information gets passed around pretty quickly.  Also very fluid. Under their interpretation, the person was still at large. But,  the information they got was like 10 minutes ago. So, it could change. The  person could be in custody at this moment. But they're still on the impression,  still operating on as if the female is still at large -- Bill.   
O'REILLY: Now, is there any stepped up activity where you are. Again, we were talking about the search, how it was conducted. I know that there is a lot of  activity. Is it frenzied or is it calm where you are, Adam.   
HOUSLEY: You know, since I spoke to you last, it was calm and then it got frenzied in some instance. We saw one of the battering ramps come out here. We  saw a bunch of units live here. A couple come in as well. I talked to one of our  producer who's actually on the other side, basically other side of the location  from where we are. So, diagonal. It's basically a square that they have taken  people out of. And he is on other corner. And says over there, he still sees  some searching was -- it's calmer over there. But we did see some activity here,  Bill. Five or ten minutes ago, right before I got that phone call that said it  was a female was the third suspect.   
O'REILLY: Okay, now, in the air, the helicopters, is it still just one hovering overhead?   
HOUSLEY: No, there is two. I saw a second one, Bill. I know it's at least two police because they are lower, the media ones because it's night. The media ones  are way up high there and over there and over there.   
O'REILLY: Yes.  
HOUSLEY: But the police ones are low. And the policeman right behind me over my shoulder behind these trees. And there was one over there I believe as well. So,  seemed like there's two. I think there's two, maybe three. Here comes one right  out, Bill. So, they have picked it up a lot at least this area in the last  couple of -- we haven't seen the helo this close to us since I got here.       
O'REILLY: Do they have spotlights on, Adam?  
HOUSLEY: They do have their spotlights on which means there is still a search going on -- Bill.   
O'REILLY: Yes. That's what it means. So, you have three police helicopters in the air, and the spotlights on obviously.   
HOUSLEY: Here comes another one.  
O'REILLY: And this is four.  
HOUSLEY: Yes. There has definitely been a pickup in action, Bill. Typically because here comes another one right now. Again, these are not media, there's no  way they will allow media to fly this low.   
O'REILLY: Right.  
HOUSLEY: I don't know if you can see it at night out here. But here come another one coming through right now. So, there is definitely some more activity. We saw  the battering ram come out of here right after I spoke to you. And there was a  number of units and tactical teams leave. Then I got the information from a good  source in law enforcement saying that it's a female who is the third suspect.   
O'REILLY: Now who is taking the lead for the search? What enforcement agency is taking the lead, Adam?   
HOUSLEY: Right now, I'll see that's part of the problem, Bill, San Bernardino police says that there's still the lead. But I know from talking with federal  sources that the FBI generally steps into these situations. They are very good  about working with local law enforcement here in California especially with the  number of scenes. But I know the FBI is obviously very active.   
O'REILLY: All right, Adam. Let's go to the press conference in Southern California, go.   
CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: -- Conference. But I will say this. Since that time, we are still working on the building here at the  Inland Regional Center. As officers were searching the building, we have  mentioned in the first press conference that there was suspicious devices. One  of those devices is believed to potentially be an explosive device. They are  taking a very cautious, very slow approach to processing that building and  rendering that safe. So, I would imagine we will going to be here for several  hours as the bomb squad continues to work that part. On the investigative side,  we followed up on some tips that took us to a residence in the city of Redlands.  When officers were setting up on that residence to watch it there was a vehicle  that was seen leaving.    That was suspected of possibly being involved. There ended up being a pursuit of  that vehicle and eventually that pursuit came back to Samuel Avenue between  Mountain View and Richardson here in the city of San Bernardino where the  suspect's vehicle stopped and there was an officer- involved shooting. We had  multiple officers that were involved in the shooting. We have two suspects that  are dead at the scene. One of them male. One is a female. We had one police  officer that was wounded. He has injuries that are not considered to be life  threatening and he is at a local hospital and is expected to be okay.    The suspects that were -- that are dead at the scene. One is a male. One is a  female. They were dressed in kind of assault style clothing. I think this is  probably the best way to term it. They are both armed with assault rifles. They  are both armed with handguns. And there is also kind of some sensitive stuff  around the vehicle that they are just not real sure. They are taking a very  cautious approach to dealing with the vehicle in case there is more explosives  there. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Dave with the FBI to talk about  some parts of the investigation.   
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE OF LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE: Thank you, Chief. So first off my name is -- my name David Bowdich, the  assistant director in charge of the FBI here in the Los Angeles field office.  B-o-w-d-i-c-h. First off we want to extend our true sadness to the families of  the victims. There are many, many victims who are involved here. Some are  obviously deceased. Others are wounded and being treated as we speak. This is  truly a tragedy in our country and we will continue to apply all the resources  necessary to assure that both us, the sheriff's department, the San Bernardino  Police Department as well as the ATF work this thing together to assure that we  have chased down every lead to solve this case.    Secondly, we are bringing in FBI resources. We have agents on house in Redlands,  California right now. That house, as we know, we do not know the contents of  what's in that house. But previous active shooter incidents have shown us that  there are times when devices are left behind. We do not have any indications  there are devices. To my knowledge, but we certainly are going to proceed very  cautiously in to that house to preserve life and limb of our employees. We are  bringing evidence response teams in to work hand in hand with our state and  local partners on the officer involved shooting scenes as well as the scene here  where we have multiple victims as well as the house, we will continue to go down  this road.    This is a marathon, not a sprint. I know one of the big questions that will come  up repeatedly is, is this terrorism? And I am still not willing to say that we  know that for sure. We are definitely making some movements that it is a  possibility. We are making some adjustments to our investigation. It is a  possibility. But we don't know that yet. And we are not willing to go down that  road yet.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: David, the relationship between the two dead suspects?  
BOWDICH: Unknown at this point.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The name?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How old you will approximately are they?  
BOWDICH: I do not even know that.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about the third suspect? They were talking a third suspect.   
BOWDICH: There is a third suspect and I don't know the disposition of that suspect. I would defer that question to the chief. What I will tell you on any  indications of terrorism or this investigation, I told a few of you already, we  will go where the evidence takes us. It's possible it goes down that road. It's  also possible it does not. We're just not sure yet. And when we are fairly sure,  we will let you know.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have a motive for this?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Could this possibly be terrorism?  
BOWDICH: There are a number of potentials and there is a few potential things but we just don't know. And I'm not willing to go down that road. This is a very  fluid, active investigation. We are still gathering facts, all the heads of  agencies that we have here. We are still gathering some of these facts ourselves  because this scene is strewn throughout the city and into another city. And it's  incredibly fluid and that's just the way these things -- we'll get there when we  get there.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- information about the identity of the third suspect, description, anything?   
BURGUAN: So I should have included that in -- when I talked a moment ago. So as I said we had an officer-involved shooting on Samuel Avenue between Mountain  View and Richardson. There were two people in the vehicle, both of those people  are deceased. There was a third person that was seen running away. We do not  know if they were involved. We have that person detained. I don't have any  information on who that person is yet and we certainly don't know if they were  involved. It's possible they were not. In addition to that and the reason we put  things out on social media that we ask people to shelter in place in those  neighborhoods is because there were some folks that called in and had reported  that they heard somebody jumping fences and they reported some of that activity  in the neighborhood.    We don't know if that was possibly responding officers but we took a cautious  approach. We locked down the neighborhood. We asked people to shelter in place  and we searched that neighborhood extensively. As of a couple of minutes ago, we  just got words that that searches has been wrapped up. No additional folks have  been contacted or seen there. So, we feel that that area is safe and we can lift  that shelter in place order there.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have a motive yet and why this location?  
BURGUAN: We do not have a motive.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Possible age of the suspect.  
BURGUAN: I do not have that right now. Keep in mind -- keep in mind that I said that there were some things that were causing the officers to take a very, very  cautious approach in approaching those suspects and so we just are not that far  into the investigation yet.       
BURGUAN: I'm sorry?  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Possibility these suspects might have had suicide vests or something similar?   
BURGUAN: I don't know. I have not heard suicide vests, no.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you believe that this whole situation is all clear that people are safe or there is still more shooters potentially out there?   
BURGUAN: We feel confident about the neighborhood where the officer- involved shooting took place that we have secured that and there is nobody outstanding  there. We are reasonably confident on that. On the broader scale of the  investigation, as I said early on, we had information that there were  potentially three shooters, we are still at a point where we are tracking down  that information. We are going to try to continue to identify if there was a  third person involved or potentially even more people that might have been  involved in the planning. But we are still pretty early on that part of the  investigation.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There were a number of reports about a holiday party.  
BURGUAN: I can't listen to all of them.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, there is a report out as to holiday party somebody left angrily, went out, came back with two other people, guns, and started  firing. Any truth to that?   
BURGUAN: So, I have heard that they were in a meeting or a holiday party type event at the Inland Regional Center. Somebody did leave. But we have no idea if  that is the person that came back.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, so that's a possibility then?  
BURGUAN: Somebody did leave. There was some type of dispute or something when somebody left that party. But we have no idea if those are the people that came  back.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- Any idea what kinds of weapons were recovered at the point of the shootout, you said long guns initially?   
BURGUAN: They were assault style weapons.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: AK series?  
BURGUAN: Yes, that type of weapon, yes.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are there explosives, sir, near that black SUV currently?  
BURGUAN: There was a report that they potentially threw what was identified as a pipe bomb. I think we have rendered that device safe, it was not an explosive. I  think we are still working on the vehicle and making sure that that is safe.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you give us anything on description of these suspects, their appearance, their ethnicity, anything? Age?   
BURGUAN: Just the way that was described to me and I said this in the first press conference they came dressed and equipped and I think the people that we  have at the scene that are deceased are dressed in that way. They are dressed in  dark, kind of tactical gear I think is the best I would put it.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ethnicity. Anything like that --  
BURGUAN: I don't know. I don't know.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Serve a search warrant.  
BURGUAN: I didn't say we served a search warrant.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We understand you served a search warrant is what we are being told. So, is it your understanding that they were hold up in the general  area then the whole time?   
BURGUAN: No. No. There was information on the early part of the investigation as we started to develop information, there was one particular focus area that we  went there were a couple. But there was one particular focus area that we went  to. And it was one of those follow-ups focus areas that led us to the house in  Redlands that led to the ultimate pursuit that led to the officer involved  shooting.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is that their house?  
BURGUAN: The address was connected to the follow-up that we had. I don't know who the suspects are. Nor do I know if that is where they lived.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Chief, do you believe that the --  
BURGUAN: They were carrying assault style weapons.       I don't know the specific caliber or make or model of the gun. Hang on, real  quick.       
BURGUAN: There were two people in the SUV. Both of them were deceased.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Police killed them both.  
BURGUAN: One male, one female. They were engaged in a gun battle with police officers. And we had several officers that shot at them and into the vehicle. I  don't know what bullets caused their death.       
BURGUAN: We have a third person seen leaving the area. He is detained. We do not know the extent of his involvement, if any. It's possible that he was not.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Aurora and Coalson?  
BURGUAN: It was -- he was -- the person was detained very close to where the officer involved shooting. We don't have an Aurora and Coalson.       
BURGUAN: I don't know.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was an arrest on Coalson Street --  
BURGUAN: This was somebody detained. We have not identified them yet.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did he have weapons on him, that third suspect that's detained? Weapons located on that person?   
BURGUAN: I don't have that information.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Was there any words exchanged during this gunfire .   
BURGUAN: I don't know. I don't know.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Nationality?  
BURGUAN: I don't know. Okay. We're going to try to do another press conference sometime around 8:30, 9:00. Hopefully we will have more information for you at  that time. Thank you.   
O'REILLY: All right. That was the police chief of San Bernardino. And the breaking news there were two suspects shot dead by police. And one suspect being  detained. You know, it's funny because I have been doing this for 40 years. The  police know more than they say. And there is always a little hints. When the FBI  guy got up there and he said, look, we're north ruling out terrorism, that means  that terrorism is on the radar. Okay. Because if they thought that this was just  Bonnie and Clyde, all right, two narrative -- who just shot up something for  whatever reason, they would quickly, quickly get that out. But, but you cannot  speculate further than what the man said. So, terrorism is in play.    Let's bring in Catherine Herridge from Washington, our correspondent who knows  all of the Intel players. So, what are you hearing tonight, Catherine?   
CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bill, we just had a conversation with U.S. government official who has told us that the lead  assailant has been confirmed as a U.S. citizen. They did not provide further  information but they did also tell us that they had been working with a foreign  name earlier and they believe, based on their review of records that that name  has washed out. What caught my attention of the news conference is the  description of male and female suspect that were killed at that SUV. The assault  style clothing, the assault weapons. A handguns, and then also what they believe  may be explosive devices inside that vehicle and then also at a suspect's home.  A final point, the FBI, as the evening has progressed and you rightly point out  is becoming more deeply involved in this investigation and has not ruled out  terrorism as possibility in this case -- Bill.   
O'REILLY: Okay. We might tell the audience that if it's a local beef. If it's just people in San Bernardino, committing murder, that's not a federal crime.  All right. So the Feds don't get involved. There is no bias activity here as far  as we can tell. So the fact that the FBI, Los Angeles office is almost taking  the lead here, he didn't want to embarrass the police chief by speaking first,  shows us that there is an avenue of investigation that contains a terror  component. Now, when you say, Catherine that it's a U.S. citizen. As you know  the George Washington University study just out today says that there are about  300 U.S. citizens involved actively with ISIS on social media and 71 have been  arrested for ISIS-related activity. So that doesn't really tell us too much,  does it?   
HERRIDGE: It doesn't tell us a lot in this particular situation. But the facts seem to be laying out this evening in such a way, Bill, that the FBI is getting  more intensely involved as you rightly point out that would not be the case if  they thought it was simply it was simply a local matter. And they are also very  focused on the level of preparation there seems to be here and also how heavily  armed they will and what they believe may be improvised explosive devices.   
O'REILLY: Right. I mean, look, it is not just a beef that somebody got mad at a party, obviously. But it's interesting because the Washington Post is reporting  that someone told them that it was international terrorism. That's what the  Washington Post is reporting. But if you listen to the FBI guy, he's not ruling  that out. So, you know, you've been around long enough like I have to know that  we're probably not going to know until tomorrow what the extent of this is.   
HERRIDGE: That's right.  
O'REILLY: You know, but once they find out, who these individuals are, go into the home and as we just heard, Catherine, they can't go into the home yet  because it might be booby-trapped. Like the guy in Colorado did. So they can't  go in yet. Once they get who the guy and the gal were, they're easily going to  trace them down. Get their computers, see where they are and by this time  tomorrow we should is a full profile. Do you think that's the way it's going to  unfold?   
HERRIDGE: I think we should have a much better picture by this time tomorrow. Because now that they have these two suspects who were killed at the scene, they  should be able to identify them fairly quickly. And once they have  identifications, as you rightly point out, they're going to scrub their  electronics so they see what kind of social media footprint they had, if any,  and what their phones, sim cards, their computers will show about their activity  leading up to this event. The thing that also caught my attention is that the  news conference is the police chief I believe said that there had been a report  of an argument at that conference center, the room that had been rented, but  they were not clear that this individual is the same person who entered with the  gunmen. There have been lots of reporting this evening that it was but this is  -- does seems also in doubt at this hour.   
O'REILLY: Okay. Well, we might have some clarification on that point, Catherine. And we appreciate you helping us out tonight because on the phone --   
HERRIDGE: Of course.  
O'REILLY: -- right now is Lieutenant Rich Lawhead, public information officer for the San Bernardino Police Department. We appreciate it Lieutenant, we know  you're really busy. But can you answer Catherine's question about the argument  that allegedly happened at the center?   
LT. RICH LAWHEAD, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: Well, you know obviously like the Chief said, there was an argument. However we don't  know, you know, what that argument is about. Whether it has anything to do with  this case whatsoever. And we don't want to be too quick to point fingers or say  yes, that was involved. I mean, we have to be careful about what we say --   
O'REILLY: Absolutely. You can't speculate. Now what you can tell us though, is the person who is detained, is that person in your custody at your police  station right now?   
LAWHEAD: That person is detained. I won't say exactly where they are. Obviously that person is detained and we're going to do, like the chief says, a full  investigation to determine, you know, if they had any involvement whatsoever. If  there is any connection to him whatsoever.   
O'REILLY: Male or female, sir?  
LAWHEAD: What's that?  
O'REILLY: Male or female?  
LAWHEAD: I'm not going to comment on that right now.  
O'REILLY: Is there a reason -- I'm not being a wise guy, is there a reason you're not going to comment on that?   
LAWHEAD: No. I just basically want to hold up and let obviously the investigation to run its course. I don't want to see like I'm keeping  information from you. But I just want the investigation, without saying who it  is or who they are whether they are male or female, let's let it play out a  little bit here.   
O'REILLY: Okay. Who is interrogating? Your officers or the FBI?  
LAWHEAD: I would imagine it's going to be -- since this is a case that originated in San Bernardino, I would imagine that all agencies are going to be  involved. Obviously, we have a criminal element here and then whether there is  applications to federal level, we usually work collectively with those agencies.   
O'REILLY: Do you know if any of the 17 wounded are in danger of dying?  
LAWHEAD: You know, anybody that is wounded in a situation like this, there is that potential.   
O'REILLY: But you don't have updated information on how many are in critical condition or anything like that?   
LAWHEAD: No, I do not, sir.  
O'REILLY: Okay. Do you know what hospitals all 17 wounded are in? Are you tracking them?   
LAWHEAD: Yes, we are keeping track of where they're at. Obviously we have three trauma centers that are very close to us. Some of those went to Arrowhead  Regional. Some of those went to Loma Linda University. We have a couple of the  trauma centers. And some of the people that weren't maybe necessarily as  seriously traumatized might have gone to some of our local hospitals. We have  San Bernardino as well community hospitals in our city that are active emergency  rooms.   
O'REILLY: I have two more questions for you, Lieutenant.  
LAWHEAD: Sure.  
O'REILLY: Did you see the suspect who was detained? Did you see that person?  
LAWHEAD: No, I did not.  
O'REILLY: Okay. Well, that answers my second question. All right. We appreciate you --   
LAWHEAD: I would like to if I could --  
O'REILLY: I know. But I'm real curious about whether it was male or female. I mean, I think that's important.   
LAWHEAD: Right.  
O'REILLY: So, once you get comfortable, we would like to know that.  
LAWHEAD: Sure. And you know, I think that the chief was clear pretty about, hey we want to be real careful here. We don't want to start an international  incident unless we're absolutely sure that it is an international incident. And  we just want to get those questions answered. Now that we are sure that the --  you know, personal license secure, I mean, that was the hardest part --   
O'REILLY: Sure.  
LAWHEAD: -- is making sure everybody was secure and now we can work on the criminals --   
O'REILLY: All right. So, there's no more drag now, you're not looking for anybody else. You think you wrap the whole thing up. You just need to get  information straight before you give it up.   
LAWHEAD: Sure. I think you mentioned the computers and all that stuff, obviously, we will look at all that.   
O'REILLY: All right.  
LAWHEAD: We will did a search of all that stuff and see if there's other people involved.   
O'REILLY: All right. Lieutenant -- I can't thank you enough for helping us out tonight. And let's go back to Adam Housley who were at the scene of the domestic  terror activity today to wrap it up for us. So, you heard a lot of things  clarified in the last 10 minutes. Two suspects dead, shot dead by police. One  person has been detained. We don't know much about that person but they're being  interrogated. Seventeen people wounded. We don't know how many are critical but  they are all in area hospitals. Can you add anything to that mix?   
HOUSLEY: Yes. Well, obviously one of the suspects we reported for you, Bill, before it was a female which did threw over a curveball that some people had  reported not us but had reported that there were three men involved in this  today. I will tell you that after we got off the air with you and went to the  press conference that a huge long line of law enforcement came in here. There's  still a couple of helicopters up as well. There are police helicopters. And  Bill, you're on to something earlier when you talked about the FBI, I can tell  you this, the FBI was on this very early. And you know that from being on these  scenes as well, that they more than they're telling.   
O'REILLY: Yes.  
HOUSLEY: -- Police though, I get that's part of the investigation.  
O'REILLY: Right.  
HOUSLEY: But they were on this very early. They passed us. We were out the door literally within minutes before they came in. They passed and I had no traffic  in the line which never happens. They passed me on the freeway going down the  inside the basically, not the bike lane, but on pull over lane on the inside,  unmarked FBI, I know those guys, they went flying by me. And we're talking, you  know, within 20, 30 minutes of the shooting. So, they were already responding in  mass. They were here quickly. They were very good to deferring to the local  police, as you mentioned.    But they are very clearly are taking this and taking control of this, which you  know, does insinuate some things. But until they say that, obviously we can't go  with that. But they are very well and very active. They have come by here. We  know there are units down there. We know they have multiple public relations  officials here as well. So, they are here much more than I've seen on any other  shooting in the Los Angeles area other than the Los Angeles -- the one that  happened at the airport a few years ago. So, they are here in a very large  presence -- Bill.   
O'REILLY: Okay. Now, the only thing that has left as far as the Lieutenant was concerned from the San Bernardino police, is the vehicle suspect were in. It's  still in the middle of the street.   
HOUSLEY: Right.  
O'REILLY: Because they are afraid there is something inside the vehicle that might hurt somebody, is that correct?   
HOUSLEY: Correct. In fact, you can see they actually cleared out all their cars too. Bill, at one point, we were down almost to where that head light is, way  done there. Within 150 yards of the SUV, we could actually see it. And they  moved us out, they moved all their vehicles out. And then they've gone in with  some tactical units and staffs -- the red lights are way in, the distance  obviously, it's night so that -- the video is a bit grainy, so we apologize for  that. That's where the SUV is. If you were to go directly to the right from that  location, that's where the other search was going on, the barricade. You saw  people going door to door -- with a woman I spoke to earlier to the phone was a  woman hiding in the closet. So, all this taking place really in this area. And  we are about a mile and half directly east from where the killings took place.   
O'REILLY: All right. Well, we're happy that that lady didn't come out of the closet with her dog. And we're happy that the authorities believe that they will  have the whole thing wrapped up. There's no present danger there. And Adam, we  really appreciate your fine work. You stand by for Megyn. She is coming up at 
9:00.  
HOUSLEY: Thank you.  
O'REILLY: And we do expect another press conference, as you heard, to take place within the hour. And we are very, very interested to find out who these people  are, obviously. Because as soon as they do that, and as Adam said, the FBI and  the local authorities know more than they're saying. And that's fine. I mean,  they have to be very, very methodical. Can't make mistakes. Like we in the press  can make mistakes. It doesn't matter. They make mistakes, it matters. So, we  respect that. We understand the process that's underway. And we will be on the  air here throughout the evening with updates from the scene in Southern  California.    We appreciate you watching THE FACTOR tonight. Tomorrow we will have our  interview with Donald Trump for you as well as follow-up reporting on this  terrible situation. Thanks for watching. Miss Megyn is next.   
