  
BILL O'REILLY, FOX NEWS HOST: THE O'REILLY FACTOR is on. Tonight:      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Close the gate. Close the gate. We have gunshots. We have gunshots.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: East San Bernardino -- multiple shots fired. We need a bearcat. We need medical aid.       
O'REILLY: More Americans die at the hands of Muslim extremists. THE FACTOR is investigating this horrific act of violence in California and there may be an  ISIS connection.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On behalf of the American Muslim community, we unequivocally condemn the horrific act that happened today.       
O'REILLY: Despite condemnation form mainstream Muslims there is no question the image of Islam is severely damaged in America. We will comment on that.       
O'REILLY: Sometimes when you are up there, you get overly excited. You have to kind of be careful.       
O'REILLY: Also ahead a very lively interview with Donald Trump who remains the frontrunner in the Republican presidential sweepstakes.       
O'REILLY: Are you going assassins roaming around shooting the families of the terrorists?       
O'REILLY: Caution, you are about to enter the No Spin Zone. THE FACTOR begins right now.    Hi, I'm Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching us tonight.    More Americans die at the hands of Muslim extremists. That is the subject of  this evening's "Talking Points Memo".    The death toll remains at 14. 21 wounded after two Muslim extremists attack a  public facility in San Bernardino County, California yesterday. Now, here is the  update tonight. 28-year-old Syed Farook and his 27-year- old wife Tashfeen Malik  left their six-month old daughter with a relative and then embarked on a day of  murder.    Farook worked as an environmental inspector for the county and attended a  holiday luncheon at the Inland Regional Center. Farook left the celebration,  returned a short time later with wife brandishing semiautomatic weapons. The  pair opened fire, shot off approximately rounds then left after about five  minutes.    Acting on a tip, police traced the couple to a home in nearby Redlands where a  car chase began. It ended with Farook and Malik being shot dead by police. Two  officers were injured in the action. They are ok this evening.    Now, what really happened? Authorities say Farook, an American citizen and  Malik, a Pakistani rented a home where they apparently made bombs and  accumulated weapons and a massive of ammunition.    A number of reports say Farook was an extremist with an ISIS connection and that  makes sense as you don't have a house full of bombs unless you have terror on  your mind. Also, ISIS immediately praised the mass murder calling the killers  quote, "lions".    So now we have yet another terror attack generated by Islamic fanatics -- one  born here, the other a Pakistani. The damage these two have caused spreads far  beyond the dead and wounded. Good American Muslims are devastated.    I talked with a doctor in Chicago -- solid citizens. His family has been here  for more than a century. He, his wife and children now feel branded because of  all the terror in the name of Allah. There are literally millions of good  Muslims all over the world being battered by these ISIS killers and their  fanatical followers.    In addition, the mass murder in California has political implications which  we'll examine this evening.    Once again the terror spotlight is directly on President Obama who has been soft  on fighting the jihad. And now has angered many Americans almost beyond  description. Critical mass has indeed been reached.    And that's the memo.    Now for the top story: last night as we were reporting, of the breaking news  from California, THE FACTOR was the first news operation in the world to  identify the primary killer.       
JIM HANSON, CENTER FOR SECURITY POLICY: The name Farook Syed came out as the suspect who went in to this meeting/holiday party left angrily and they believe  was the one who came back and initiated the shooting.       
O'REILLY: Once again, joining us from Washington Jim Hanson and from Los Angeles, Aaron Cohen -- both are counter terrorism experts.    Mr. Hanson, congratulations on that breaking story. What can you tell me that's  new this evening?   
HANSON: Well, Bill, I think the fact that the police and FBI are now announcing that they found jihadist materials, that there was an online presence of  jihadist sites with ties to ISIS removes any doubt that this was a terror attack  and it was a jihadist and his wife who committed it.    Now, I think the thing to pay attention to, you mentioned that ISIS and its  fanatical followers are besmirching millions of Muslims. It should be noted that  when Pew International surveyed Muslims worldwide, more than one third supported  violence in the name of jihad. That is half a billion Muslims worldwide who do  not besmirch themselves by ignoring this. They have supported it and that is one  of the bigger problems we are dealing with.   
O'REILLY: Ok. Mr. Cohen, this reminds me of the Boston Marathon bomber situation in which you have two people. You had the Tsarnaev brothers up there. They come  to America -- the wife did anyway. The guy was born in Indiana. And they  radicalize themselves for whatever reason and then they go out and they kill and  maim. Really no reason to do it -- they just feel compelled to do it. Am I  missing something here?   
AARON COHEN, COUNTERTERRORISM EXPERT: I think what we're seeing is a connection to Islam, to be able to carry out acts of terror for people who were suffering  from low self-esteem combined with wanting to connect with ISIS.    Look at the tactical footprint here -- Bill. There is a lot of similarities  between the equipment that was stockpiled which investigators found once they  made entry into the home between the attack yesterday and what we saw at Fort  Hood which was, again, multiple weapons, the fact that there was preemptive  planning involved, roots. I'm not speculating here.    And the most common thread for me the tactical footprint on this one also the  same with the bombers in Boston is the level of aggression that we're seeing  with these would-be terrorists. That's the thread that I'm connecting here for  the tactical footprint.   
O'REILLY: Yes. I mean they're sociopaths, they're psychopaths, they hate. And it doesn't matter who us is. It could be a child, a woman, a man. It doesn't matter  what color you are or religion you are. They go in and they're just blasting  away.    So, Mr. Hanson, I mean I don't know any society can stop that -- a free society.  Do you?   
HANSON: I think you have to look at the fact that they're not just sociopaths or psychopaths. They do have an animating ideology. That ideology is jihad. It's  the pursuance of Sharia. It is furthering the goal of ISIS which is a global  caliphate. ISIS now has an intercontinental caliphate and these people feel that  their contribution is to kill infidels to further that cause.   
O'REILLY: All right. They're like soldiers in the war, ISIS is their central command and here they are. But you are dealing with a free society -- a society  that allows people to come and go.    And, you know, again, these people, it's always the same story, Mr. Cohen, and  you are out in L.A. -- how could this happen? The imam of the mosque -- oh, no,  we never saw. The guy's brother-in-law can't believe it. It's always the same.  It's always the same kind of stuff. And it just seems to me that we're in a war,  we are not really fighting it but even if we fought it even if President Obama  was a war time president, I don't think you can stop this kind of stuff,  totally. You can't.   
COHEN: Well, there is no such thing, Bill, as total safety, but in Israel we have learned that we can get to a high degree of safety as long as the safety  protocols are looked at realistically. I know that's a subjective term. I hate  to use it, it's very Israeli.    But at the end of the day if you don't take the aggressive posture both  defensively in terms of training our security forces here, little less reliant  on the technology, more on behavioral profiling and the intelligence sharing,  which we're not great at but we are getting better at.    What I mean by that is the eagles have to come down, in the intel word, to  collect the data and accumulate it and then be able deploy it real-time which is  the key with terror and then be able to go after these threats aggressively  using Special Operations Force.    If you don't do it the way we know it works in Israel in the end ultimately you  are going to fail.   
O'REILLY: Well, this war is now defined for all Americans except President Obama. He is not leading. I don't expect him to lead but the folks are really,  really furious.    And then the other thing is that we're going to learn over the next day or two  whether this guy was on the terror watch list, this Farook and his wife --  whether the authorities did have an eye on him. Because with all the social  media links to ISIS and all the stuff they found there has to be a link. Then  you're going to see hell to pay if they knew about him and they didn't do  anything.    So gentlemen -- you stand by. We're going to bring you back in a couple of days  because I know this story is going to have more to it. We appreciate it tonight.    Next on the rundown, ISIS people are already here in America, as you know. We  are going to tell you precisely what we know about that.    Then the political implications of the mass murder, we'll talk to Dana Perino  and Newt Gingrich.    Also ahead: an interview with Donald Trump.    THE FACTOR is coming right back.   
O'REILLY: "Impact Segment" tonight, ISIS collaborators in the U.S.A. As we reported earlier this week a new study by George Washington University uncovered  about 300 ISIS advocates living in America and authorities have arrested about  70 individuals on ISIS-related activities.    For years police here in New York City have been monitoring radical mosques and  other places where suspected terrorists might gather. The left-wing mayor of New  York City now Bill de Blasio shut that program down.    But joining us now to explain how it did work, the former police commissioner of  the Big Apple, Ray Kelly. The commissioner is also the author of the new book,  "Vigilance: my life serving America and protecting its empire city". And that's  what the program was all about protecting New York City, right?   
RAY KELLY, FORMER NYPD COMMISSIER: Exactly.  
O'REILLY: All right. So how did it work?  
KELLY: Well, the program that the mayor eliminated was the demographics unit. We wanted to know who lived in New York City, the most diverse city in the world.  It's very tribal. We knew that, for instance, suicide bombers were going from  one town in Libya into Iraq in 2003. So we wanted to know in a more granular  fashion who was in New York City -- perfectly legal.    For instance, it gave us information that told us where the Chechen community  was in the metropolitan area. Why was that important? The Boston Marathon  bombers were coming to New York, if you recall. They told the individual who  they hijacked the car from that they were coming to New York.   
O'REILLY: Right.  
KELLY: We knew --  
O'REILLY: And they were Chechens.  
KELLY: And were Chechens. So we knew where they might go. That sort of information is helpful.   
O'REILLY: You called it the demographic unit.  
KELLY: Right.  
O'REILLY: And this was basically compiling information about where certain groups of people were living.   
KELLY: Right.  
O'REILLY: Right?  
KELLY: Totally in public. It wasn't surreptitious. Police officers in civilian clothes some had language skills went out and spoke to people in the community.   
O'REILLY: What's going on, you know? Anybody new in town? That kind of thing.  
KELLY: Yes.  
O'REILLY: We did hear that there were some NYPD undercover that went into radical mosques. There were a few in Brooklyn that we've ID'd where the imams  are preaching hate and that you guys sent in people to find out what was going  on. Was that true?   
KELLY: To follow leads. We go wherever those leads would take us. If it took us to a mosque, fine. If it took us to Saint Patrick's Cathedral, we go there as  well, or to a synagogue. So, you can't have a refuge.   
O'REILLY: But you did, you did send undercovers into certain places.  
KELLY: When it's appropriate. When it was appropriate.  
O'REILLY: When it was appropriate. When you had reasonable cause to do so?  
KELLY: Precisely.  
O'REILLY: All right. So was that helpful? Did you get information from, you know, radical places not just mosques but maybe clubs and things like that?   
KELLY: Yes. Well, the ultimate test is we had 16 plots against New York City --  
O'REILLY: 16?  
KELLY: -- and none succeeded on the Bloomberg watch. It was all part of a major comprehensive program.   
O'REILLY: I just want to be clear. So you disrupted 16 plots by policing in this manner, demographically, going where you thought trouble might occur and  assembling information? You disrupted 16.   
KELLY: It's important to know that in part with the FBI and we were lucky in some of those cases.   
O'REILLY: Ok. So the new mayor comes in and he's a very liberal guy and he says no, no, no. This is profiling and we are not going to do this anymore. What is  your response to that?   
KELLY: That was inappropriate. Perfectly legal -- there was no reason to eliminate it. We changed the name to the area assessment unit but --   
O'REILLY: The area assessment unit?  
KELLY: Right.  
O'REILLY: So you change it from the demographic squad to the area assessment.  
KELLY: They had some more duties.  
O'REILLY: Ok. But that's still not good enough, right? He says no, I don't want any eyes, even if a guy is out there screaming he wants to kill Americans, and I  love ISIS, you are not allowed to chase him around or look at him.   
KELLY: And this gave him a front page story in the "New York Times" - -  
O'REILLY: -- which is what he wanted.   Now do you think anything is going to change now that we have this terrible  thing in San Bernardino where this guy is going to be linked up to ISIS? He is  just a regular guy. He's got a little baby, He's got a wife. Do you think de  Blasio is going to wise up and the other people will wise up?   
KELLY: I don't know. It's very challenging to identify someone like this. We will see how much information he has on the computer who he's he talking to.  That --   
O'REILLY: I'm talking about the political mind set. Is it going to change?  
KELLY: We can only hope. I don't know. If enough pressure is put on, we will see. But New York is the number one target in America. That's the consensus of  the intelligence community. But we see a city like San Bernardino that was  certainly not the center of the world.   
O'REILLY: No. But this guy was there. He was there and he was willing and able and planned it and he was going to do it.   
KELLY: Correct.  
O'REILLY: All right -- Commissioner, Thanks very much. We appreciate you coming in.   
KELLY: Thanks for having me -- Bill.  
O'REILLY: Directly ahead, Dana Perino and how the terror killings will effect President Obama, Hillary Clinton and the Republican candidates.    Then a very lively interview with Donald Trump leading the GOP pack with tough  talk on terrorism. THE FACTOR is coming right back.   
O'REILLY: "Personal Story Segment" tonight, the mass killings in San Bernardino are an embarrassment to President Obama who is widely perceived to be soft on  Islamic terrorism.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: ISIL is not going to pose an existential threat to us. They are dangerous organization like al Qaeda was. But  we have hardened our defenses. Our homeland has never been more protected more  effective intelligence and law enforcement professionals at every level than  they are now.       
O'REILLY: With us now, co-host of "THE FIVE" Dana Perino. So that was after -- that was this morning and after the terror attack. ISIL is not an existential  threat. Existential means it's a threat to disrupt the entire society that we  have.    And I'm saying to myself, you know, first it was gun control. That was his first  reaction, the President, you know, it's all about gun control. And then it's  well, you know what they are a little pesty but our security apparatus really  has it under control. And you've got 14 dead and 21 hurt -- what's under control  about that?   
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS HOST: I understand the President's desire to express confidence and try to reassure Americans that the government is on top of  things, but he doesn't ever seem to hedge a little bit.    I mean we have known for a long time that the terrorists just have to be right  once, we have to be right 100 percent of the time. And if we don't have the  resources, the intelligence resources to help disrupt plots that are under  planning like the one in San Bernardino, we can't actually help the police to  prevent them from happening in the first place.   
O'REILLY: As I told the guys before you, you're never going to stop it all.  
P6: No.  
O'REILLY: You can't. All right, it's a free society. You're going to take your -- you're going to take your blows. But this president simply will not  acknowledge that this is a war.   
P6: I agree.  
O'REILLY: And he's aided and abetted by the press who goes along with it. Listen to this CNN sound bite last night, go.       
TOM FUENTES, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: So, to me, this takes on some type of a planned attack with multiple people that don't like the government, and that  sounds more like some type of militia group.       
O'REILLY: That was before they knew and we broke the story as we mentioned that it was an Islamist. It's a right wing militia. This guy just pulls this out of  the sky. He has nothing to base this on at all -- nothing, zero.    But that's his wish. That's what he wants. And it plays right into President  Obama's wish.   
P6: Their first thought is never but it's terrorism.  
O'REILLY: Never.  
P6: And I also think it's very clarifying to me when you talk about good versus evil. That's not out of the realm of possibility that there are antigovernment  folks out there. But that was his first thought was to go there -- not to wait.   
O'REILLY: That's what he wanted it to be that. They want it to be it.  
P6: Well, even now the government is reluctant to call it terrorism.  
O'REILLY: Well look, I think it's a decent -- we are getting a decent amount of information. They may be reluctant but we are getting the profile. There is no  doubt he is an Islamist.   
PERINO: There's no doubt. And so was his wife.  
O'REILLY: That's what it is. And so was his wife. And they were there. And they got bombs in the house and oh, nobody knows. Come on, nobody knows? Nobody  knows? I don't believe that for a second.   
P6: No. And I think they will probably find out that there are more.  
O'REILLY: That's right.  
P6: It does seem that the President wants to stick by his original comments that ISIS and al Qaeda are the JV team.   
O'REILLY: But he is making himself look weak and foolish.   Now, on the Republican side who do you think benefits politically from the  increased concern with terrorism?   
P6: Well, I think I'm reluctant to say that any tragedy actually helps somebody politically.   
O'REILLY: No, no but in general?  
P6: You know, I have to say that Chris Christie could possibly be one of the people on the stage that says, look, I have been there. I understand terrorism  --   
O'REILLY: And he's done that -- right.  
P6: I have prosecuted it and so because he has been hanging on and he is heading into a debate in a couple of weeks. I think if anyone actually were to be able  to say I have experience that can help us deal with this generational war that  we're heading into, it might be Chris Christie.   
O'REILLY: All right. Dana Perino -- everybody. Thank you as always.   Plenty more ahead as THE FACTOR moves along this evening: Donald Trump, did he  gain from the terror attack? We have a very spirited interview with him coming  right up.    And Newt Gingrich will analyze what Mr. Trump says and talk about whether  President Obama will ever change his war on terror strategy.    We hope you stay tuned for those reports.   
O'REILLY: In the "Campaign 2016 Segment" tonight, an interview with Donald Trump. We conducted it yesterday before the terror attack in California  happened. But many of the themes we talked about are relevant to the Islamic  terrorist situation.    However, we begin the interview with President Obama traveling to Paris this  week for the global warming conference.       
O'REILLY: Let's talk a little policy first off. What did you think of the global warming summit in Paris this week?   
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think it's ridiculous. We have bigger problems right now. And to have the President be there for an extended  period of time talking about global warming being the biggest problem facing  this country is insane.    He ought to get back to work and solve the ISIS problem and solve the problems  we have with Russia and Iran. If they spent as much time working on the Iran  deal as they did -- I mean this horrible, horrible transaction where we're  giving away $150 billion dollars and which will lead to nuclear proliferation by  the way. He ought to get back here and go back to work.   
O'REILLY: Do you believe in global warming climate change? Do you think the world is going to change for the worse because it's getting warmer?   
TRUMP: I think that there will be little change here. It will go up it will get a little cooler, it will get a little warmer like it always has for millions of  years. It will get cooler, it will get warmer. It's called weather. I do believe  in clean, you know, I have received -- a lot of people don't know this. I have  received many environmental awards, many, many environmental awards for the work  I do. And I believe strongly in clean water and clean air. But I don't believe  that what they say, I think it's a big scam for a lot of people to make a lot of  money.    In the meantime, China is eating our lunch because they don't partake in all of  the rules and regulations that we do. They are buying our coal. We are not using  our coal. They are buying our coal and they are using it and then they compete  because they're spending a lot less money to build their products and to make  their products. So, I am a believer in clean air and clean water at the highest  level.   
O'REILLY: All right. If you were president, would you invest a lot of money in alternative energy to get away from fossil fuels and would you limit the amount  of coal emissions and other industries into the air?   
TRUMP: I want to get away from the Middle East. I want to get away from the monopoly that they once had and they still have to a certain extent. I want to  be able to be self-sufficient to the country. Now due to the new techniques,  things that we didn't even know about three or four years ago. It turns out we  have virtually unlimited supply of fuel right under our feet due to fracking and  many other techniques that frankly are very new. And we are able to take care of  ourselves. I know a lot about wind. Wind is destroying a lot of problems, number  one it's killing the birds. The birds and the eagles and you see what's  happening in California with, you know, if you shoot an eagle, a bald eagle in  California, they want to put you in jail. And, yet the windmills are killing  them by hundreds.   
O'REILLY: So, you're not a -- of what's happening.  
TRUMP: No. I'm not -- I'm not -- I think it's fine in certain locations. I think it's fine. The problem with the wind is it needs tremendous subsidy. Wind needs  tremendous subsidy. So, I think wind is fine.   
O'REILLY: Would you invest government money in alternative fuels? Would you do that? Or would you just let it go?   
TRUMP: I would spend money on certain things. Now, it always sounds better than it is. You know, you have 36 year pay back. I always want to go solar. I love  the idea of solar and then I do a test and you get your money back in 36 years.  The problem is, the panels destroy themselves after 10 years. So, it's just, you  know, you have got to make it economically viable, Bill. Right now it's no  economically viable.   
O'REILLY: And if it were, then somebody would be marketing it. That's for sure. Now this morning on "FOX AND FRIENDS" --   
TRUMP: -- if you could to do.  
O'REILLY: OK.  
TRUMP: It has to be viable. Yes.  
O'REILLY: This morning on "FOX & FRIENDS," you are talking about ISIS. And you said this, role the tape.       
TRUMP: Fighting a very politically correct war. The other thing is, with the terrorists you have to take out their families. When you get these terrorists,  you have to take out their families. They care about their lives. Don't kid  yourself is. But they say they don't care about their lives. You have to take  out their families.       
O'REILLY: So what does that mean? Are you going to have assassins roaming around shooting the families of the terrorists?   
TRUMP: When the World Trade Center came down, the people that knocked it down, the terrorists that knocked it down, put their families on airplanes and sent  them back home. Mostly to Saudi Arabia, believe it or not.   
O'REILLY: That was the Bin Laden Bush thing. Yes.  
TRUMP: They put them. The Bin Laden disaster.  
O'REILLY: But would have you killed Bin Laden's family?  
TRUMP: I would have done a very great destruction -- look, supposedly, they don't care about their own lives. I disagree with that they want to live, too.   
O'REILLY: All right. But you have to define to me, take out their families. What does that mean?   
TRUMP: Bill, Bill. Do you think the wives and the families knew exactly what was going to happen with September 11th? I do and I know they did. Well, I do, I  think they did.   
O'REILLY: So, when you say take out though. What does take out mean?  
TRUMP: You have to do what Israel was doing for a period of time. Take out means that you have to wipe out their homes where they came from. You have to  absolutely wipe them out. It's the only way you are going to stop terrorism. You  have all these cells.   
O'REILLY: Would you kill the family members of terrorists? Would you have killed the Bin Laden family?   
TRUMP: I don't want to be so bold. I want to tell you they would suffer. They know what was going on. If you look at what happened with these terrorists, they  put their wives on the planes. Those wives knew exactly what was happening. The  children, everybody knew. But they put their wives and families on those planes.  They went home. They knew what was going to happen. They sat back and watched  daddy on television.   
O'REILLY: How do you know they knew?  
TRUMP: Because I knew. Because that's the way life is. Because I'm a realist. That's the way the life works.       
O'REILLY: Bin Laden had a lot of wives. And he had some relatives here. He is over in Afghanistan hatching a plot. I don't know if you can -- you know, I  don't know. You can't really take them out.   
TRUMP: We have to be, Bill, hey, Bill, we have to be much tougher than we are.  
O'REILLY: All right.  
TRUMP: We're just not doing it right. We have to be much more vigilant and we have to be much tougher.   
O'REILLY: Okay.  
TRUMP: We can't allow this to happen. They take the wives. They put them on planes, they send them home. Let's go home and let's watch daddy tonight on  television knock down the World Trade Center. There has to be retribution. And  if there is not going to be retribution, you are never going to stop terrorism.       
O'REILLY: Now, in part two of our interview, I ask Mr. Trump why he makes so many statements that get him into trouble. Right back with it.   
O'REILLY: Thanks for staying with us, I'm Bill O'Reilly. Continuing now with Donald Trump, as you may know, he said that he saw thousands of Muslims in New  Jersey celebrating after the 9/11 attack. We investigated and came up with the  very interesting report from WCBSTV five days after 9/11.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There is another apartment building, one that investigator told me, quote, "is swarming with suspects." Suspects who I'm told were cheering  on the roof when they saw the plane slam into the trade center. Police were  called to the building by other neighbors and found eight men celebrating. Six  of them, tenants in the building. The FBI and other terrorist task force  agencies then arrived and the older investigators on the task force recalled  that they had been to this building before eight years ago when the first World  Trade Center attack led them to shake Omar Abdul Rahmanwhose Jersey City  mosque lies between the two buildings getting attention today.       
O'REILLY: Now, I played that report for Mr. Trump yesterday while telling him we could find no other videotape germane to the issue.       
O'REILLY: So, no videotape about, you know, thousands of people celebrating, it doesn't exist. And we really looked everywhere. I mean, it's just not there. But  there were people celebrating. Mayor Giuliani confirms in New York it happened.  Mr. Guzman confirms in Jersey it happened, so does the Jersey State police. So,  you were wrong by saying thousands but it did happen. What say you?   
TRUMP: Well, I don't know that I'm wrong, Bill. You know, this just came out from Breitbart. I mean, literally it just came out. Trump vindicated, 100  percent vindicated. And this just -- I mean, literally I'm just seeing it now.  So, I don't know that I'm wrong, there are a lot of people, you know, we don't  have cell phones today with the cameras on them. I mean, if we did, I think you  would see something a lot different. You look at what happened recently a week  ago with the soccer game where they had a minute of silence for the people that  were just absolutely, it was horrible what happened in Paris. And they honoring  those people a minute of silence. And you heard shouts from the Muslim world at  the game that were horrendous.   
O'REILLY: Do you remember what country that was?  
TRUMP: Excuse me?  
O'REILLY: Do you remember what country that was?  
TRUMP: It was a different country.  
O'REILLY: It was Turkey.  
TRUMP: I'm just saying.  
O'REILLY: Okay.  
TRUMP: Yes. It was Turkey, I'm just saying. There is great hatred out there.  
O'REILLY: Nobody is disputing that.  
TRUMP: And people are not acknowledging it.  
O'REILLY: Where you get in trouble, with all due respect, of course, is what you give a speech and you say things like I saw thousands and there weren't  thousands.   
TRUMP: But you don't know that there weren't, Bill. Bill, you don't know --  
O'REILLY: I was reporting. And believe me if there were thousands that would have been reported.   
TRUMP: This article says they were swarming. Bill, this article says they were swarming all over the place.   
O'REILLY: All right.  
TRUMP: So, I don't know what that means but it means a lot of people.  
O'REILLY: There were some people, not thousands. What I want to get at is this. You are giving a speech.   
TRUMP: You don't know that Bill. Bill, you don't know that. Bill, you don't know that.   
O'REILLY: I'm pretty confident.  
TRUMP: All right, you are pretty sure. You are pretty sure. You don't know that. This says swarming all over New Jersey.   
O'REILLY: You are not always right. So, you know, take it to the bank.  
TRUMP: Okay.  
O'REILLY: All right. So you go to Virginia and you give a speech tonight, okay? Do you have that speech printed out or is ad-lib speech?   
TRUMP: Well, it would be so much easier to just read off a teleprompter like our President does where he reads a teleprompter because he can't do anything else.  I like to not do that. I have thousands of people, the other night we had 15,000  people.       
TRUMP: You know, why?  
O'REILLY: Why?  
TRUMP: It's more exciting. You know, the other thing about it?  
O'REILLY: But you get into trouble.  
TRUMP: I can talk about current events. I can talk about things that took place two hours ago. I can talk about a soccer game if it was played and people were  screaming horrible things and it took place an hour before I go up.   
O'REILLY: Okay.  
TRUMP: And frankly, it's much more exciting to speak for the people for everybody even for me. But now --   
O'REILLY: I understand --  
TRUMP: -- to do that, you need extraordinary memory and you need lots of ability to be able to speak in front of 20,000 people without a speech.   
O'REILLY: You have that.  
TRUMP: I think it's much better.  
O'REILLY: But here's what happens, sometimes when you are up there, you get overly excited. And you're speaking extemporaneously. And then you say things as  anybody would because a crowd is cheering and everything is going wild that you  don't know to be true but you believe to be true. But you don't know it. So  that's the risk as a president, all right? When you're out there is a man who  wants the most powerful position in the world, you have got to be kind of be  careful in those speeches because that's what gets you in trouble. Do you get my  point?   
TRUMP: I would love to read speeches off of a teleprompter. It is so easy to do. I would even love to read speeches -- but you know what? You don't get the same  excitement. You don't get the same feeling and I haven't made very many mistakes  that I can tell you. You know, when I talked about when I announced and when I  talked about illegal immigration, all of a sudden everyone, I mean, the world  went crazy and thought it was terrible. Four weeks later, I was number one in  the polls because everyone realized I was right. In fact there was about one  week later. But I was number one in the polls. And now I'm number one in every  single poll. A big one, I hate to hear this. But a big one is coming out CNN  tomorrow. I don't how it's going to be.   
O'REILLY: All right.  
TRUMP: But I look forward to that one! But we are number one in every poll, including the FOX poll, very important.   
O'REILLY: All right. But I'm saying that --  
TRUMP: -- and we beat Hillary. By the way, Bill, and we beat Hillary head to head.   
O'REILLY: All right. And I'm sure she is thrilled to that.  
TRUMP: She is thrilled.  
O'REILLY: With the responsibility, okay, with the responsibility that you are seeking comes personal responsibility and when you say something, you have to be  pretty damn well sure that attacker is not hyperbole. That's the point I'm  trying to make and I'm sure you understand.   
TRUMP: I have had very few complaints, Bill. I've had very few complains. And we get the biggest crowds by many, many times and we get far bigger crowds than  anybody else.   
O'REILLY: That's because you're so charismatic.  
TRUMP: We have a great -- you know what? We have a great time with a tough subject because there is not a lot of good news happening with the United  States. You understand that better than anybody.   
O'REILLY: All right.  
TRUMP: So we have a great time, as good as time as we can, with subject matter that's not so pleasant.   
O'REILLY: Always very fascinating to talk with you, Donald. And we always appreciate your time. Thank you very much.       
O'REILLY: In a moment, Newt Gingrich will analyze whether Mr. Trump will gain the California terror attack, moments away.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I just want to assure my fellow citizens here in California that we're going to go just as far as we have to to make sure that  public safety is protected. Thank you.   
MICHAEL RAMOS, SAN BERNARDINO DISTRICT ATTORNEY: First and foremost, I want to thank the governor for being here. Mike Ramos, District Attorney. I'm a very  fortunate District Attorney. We're working cooperatively with the U.S.  attorney's office, U.S. attorney, Eileen Decker and I can't tell you how proud I  am of the team work of both our local agency, San Bernardino Police Department,  the sheriff's department and our federal partners, the FBI and others. And  finally, as the District Attorney, we are very saddened of the loss of the  victims, family members, some family members of the attorneys in my office and  we are going to be there for the victims. If you go to at SB County DA on  Twitter, you will have a direct line for victim services, any other family  members that need support and help, we will be there for you. Thank you.   
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE OF LA OFFICE: Good evening. First of all, I want to thank you for your patience. As we've said from day one,  this is a marathon, not a sprint. It's a tragedy that occurred. We'll continue  to do everything in our power bringing all the resources to bear, the federal  government to work hand and hand with the state and local partners on this  matter. We continue to exploit all the evidence possible and as I've said from  day one, the evidence will lead us to the facts. We will go where the evidence  takes us. Thank you again for your patience.   
CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: Good evening, everybody. Thank you very much for being patient. I know we were going to try to do this a  little bit earlier, 4:30 is what we were shooting for. We just couldn't quite  make that happen but thanks for sticking with us. Were we able to get those  pictures up? So we have some pictures of the crime scene where the  officer-involved shooting took place. We'll be able to provide digital copies of  those images online for everybody that wants them but they are pictures of the  weapons, they are pictures of the suspect vehicle and a few others in there. We  wanted to provide that.    Additionally, I got a few more statistics and numbers for folks just as an  update from earlier information that we have put out. As we said, this was a  department of public health event. As it turns out, it was an event that was  training in the morning, those transitioning to a holiday Christmas Party lunch  in the afternoon. And this happened right about the time of that transition.  There were 91 invited guests that were there. We believe that there were about  75 to 80 people that were present in the room when this occurred or that  ultimately came to that party. We don't have the exact number because they had a  sign in list and we're still working through some of those dynamics. We don't  know that everybody signed in.    Of the 21 people that were injured, 18 of them have been identified as county  employees. Eighteen of the 21 were county employees, the other three were not  county employees. Of the 14 people that are deceased and their identities have  been released now, 12 of those individuals were county employees, county of San  Bernardino, two of them were not. And then finally, one of the questions that  came from the media is that you wanted to hear from one of the first responders  when we responded to this on Wednesday morning. So I'd like to introduce  Lieutenant Mike Madden. Spelling is M-i-k-e last M-a-d-d-e-n.    Mike is actually one of our administrative commanders for the Police Department.  He's a 24 year veteran. As an administrative guy, he really has a desk job. The  realty is at 11:00 in the morning on Wednesday, Mike was on his way to lunch  when this call went out and he didn't hesitate. Mike was the first officer that  was on scene and he was the first person that we had that gathered the first  units that went in and addressed this. So, I'm going to let Mike kind of tell  the story of what they experienced firsthand and then we'll take a few questions  for Mike as soon as he's done.   
LT. MIKE MADDEN, FIRST OFFICER ON THE SCENE: Thank you, sir.   I guess I was just asked to come forward and talk a little bit about what it was  that we saw and experienced yesterday and I'll tell you that it was something  that although we train for it, it's something that you're never actually  prepared for. When we got the call, I oversee dispatch, it's one of my functions  and responsibilities with the Police Department and I know my dispatchers. I  know, I know the tone of their voice. I know the severity of calls as they are  going out and I could hear it in our dispatcher's voice that this was actually  happening, this was a real event and it was the event that, you know, we have an  active shooter and we have an active shooter going on in our city and I was  nearby.    I was less than a mile away. And I started coming this way. And I realized as I  was getting closer that I was one of the very first units there, myself and  officer Sean Sandoval arrived almost simultaneously and just out of pure luck  because the information was evolving so rapidly, it was out of pure luck that I  happen to pull into the right location, which was just south of the road that  you see here, just north of us. It was just south of the building where this  tragedy took place. As I was looking and seeing all of the activity and trying  to assess what was happening, I was informed that there was, that that was the  location where this was happening and I was asking for officers to respond as  quickly as possible because we had every belief at that time that we had people  still actively being shot inside of the building.    My goal was to assemble an entry team and enter into the building to engage the  active shooter. This mindset and this type of training became indoctrinated in  us after the Columbine incident and that was the goal that we were on it to get  in there. And we wanted to stop any further innocent people from being injured  and possibly killed. As three officers arrived, there was an proximate  two-minute time lapse from the time that I got there until we had a team  assembled of our four initial responding officers and the four of us then went  around the south side of the building.    As we made our way around to the east side, it was immediately evident that the  reports that we were getting were 100 percent true. There were victims who were  clearly obviously deceased outside of the conference room and I re-laid that  information to the other responding officers and again, requested assistance. As  we entered into the conference room, the situation was surreal. It was something  that I don't think again we prepare for and they try to an active shooter, we  talk about sensory overload, they just try to throw everything at you to prepare  you for dealing with that. What you're seeing, what you're hearing, what you're  smelling, and it was all of that and more. It was unspeakable. The carnage that  we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and unfortunately already  dead and the pure panic on the face of those individuals that were still in need  and needing to be safe.    We asked -- we got as many people out as quickly as we could. We had  approximately, I estimated in talking with the other officers who were with me,  probably 50 people responded past us and out the doors and then we went further  into the building and that was a difficult choice to have to make, as well,  passing people that we knew were injured and needing assistance but our goal at  that time had to be trying to locate the shooters and deal with them before we  could get further assistance in for those people in need of medical attention. I  was very glad to see that in a very short period of time we had a number of  other responders that came in and were able to formulate tactical teams and then  continue on with the search. And I was then able to pull back from the situation  and go back into handling more of a supervisee role and allowing other officers  to continue with the remainder of the search. Does anybody have any questions?   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did you think there was still an active shooter? What were you thinking about in terms of there might still be someone in the room? And my  second question is, how are you doing personally? How are you handling this?   
MADDEN: First question there was we absolutely believe that there was another shooter. We were told that there were as many as potentially three shooters but  again, we were getting information from multiple callers and people weren't, you  know, clear as to exactly how many shooters we did or did not have. Some were  seen potentially reporting double, you know, suspects and things of that nature.  So, we were told that one of the suspects had possibly fled in the black  vehicle, prior to our arrival but there was many potentially as two more  shooters inside and when we entered, there was fresh gun powder and the smell of  gun powder in the air leading me to believe that there was in fact, there were  in fact shooters still.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You are trained for this obviously but you talk to people you can never be trained for it when it happens. How emotional was it for you? It  looks like there are tears in your eyes right now.   
MADDEN: You know, you -- to be honest, you guys, it was a little surreal. It was, you know, you train for it and know that your job is dealing in reality but  it seemed a little surreal but yet, I did the job that I was supposed to do. My  job is to go in there and --   
