    
HIGHLIGHT: In a year when none of the old rules seem to apply and none of his rivals for the nomination seem to getting anywhere near him for love or money,  even for lots and lots and lots of money, Donald Trump continues to lead the  field. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel fired the city`s police superintendent. In  full coordination with the government of Iraq, the U.S. government is deploying  a specialized expeditionary targeting force to assist Iraqi and Kurdish  Peshmerga forces and put even more pressure on ISIL.     
WENDY DAVIS, FORMER STATE SENATOR: -- to the issue of controlling women because when women`s reproductive autonomy is controlled, their economic  opportunity is controlled. There`s no question about it.   
CHRIS HAYES, "ALL IN" HOST: All right. Wendy Davis, thank you.  
DAVIS: Thank you, Chris.  
HAYES: That is "ALL IN" for this evening.   THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now. Good evening, Rachel.   
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thanks, my friend.  
HAYES: You bet.  
MADDOW: And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.   Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush just made a big announcement tonight.  I think. It`s a little bit hard to tell with Jeb Bush, but I think that in  Waterloo, Iowa, tonight, Jeb Bush has just announced that he is going to pick a  woman for a running mate. He`s going to pick a female vice presidential running  mate if he gets the Republican presidential nomination.    I think that`s what he said. The caveat here is that it`s Jeb Bush. And so  sometimes, particularly when he thinks he`s got something important to say, he  kind of winds up to it and doesn`t exactly execute right and it`s sometimes hard  to know what he means when he talks.    But I think this is -- judge for yourself. He may have meant something else  entirely and I`m just misunderstanding, but I think he said he wants to pick a  female running mate.       
JEB BUSH, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think my dad loved Ronald Reagan that his loyalty was proven out. As a result, he was given responsibilities that  allowed him to really add value to the relationship. That kind of relationship I  think is really important.    And should I be elected president, I would have my vice president, I think she  will be a great partner. I mean, did I say that out loud?    We always talk about this with one gender in mind. I think we`ve reached the  point in our country where maybe we should be a little less gender specific  about this.       
MADDOW: And then he didn`t elaborate. But that was Jeb Bush speaking in Waterloo, Iowa, tonight about how he wants to be less gender specific when it  comes to talk about the vice presidency.    You see what I mean how it`s a little hard to know what he means? I mean, when  he says we always talk about this with one gender in mind, that would -- that  would still be a roundabout way of saying it, but it would at least make sense  if nobody had nominated a female vice presidential running mate before. But  that`s happened already a couple of times, including pretty recently.    So, again, I cannot quite be sure if Jeb Bush just said he was going to pick a  woman as his running mate if he gets the nomination but he might have been  trying to say that tonight in Iowa, which at least is a good effort on his part  to make some news, to frankly get people to imagine the prospect of him winning  the nomination.    If Governor Bush does succeed in getting people to talk about this new prospect  so awkwardly floated by the candidate tonight, that would be significantly  better news for him than the other story that dropped into presidential politics  today like a cannonball into the kiddy pool. That was these new numbers  collected and published by NBC News today which showed TV ad spending by each of  the Republican presidential candidates.    This is not easy information to get. There`s no one place where all this  information can be easily garnered. You have to go out in the field and get this  stuff, especially when you want to look at the meaningful number which is  campaign spending, plus candidates supporting super PAC spending. It can be hard  to track this stuff down.    But NBC News got that work done and came up with what ended up being a pretty  eye-popping result today, because what you`re looking at there on your screen  right now, that`s all the ad spending from both candidates` campaigns and super  PACs supporting them on TV ads during the 2016 campaign so far. This is all of  the candidates except one, because there`s one candidate who blows everybody  else away in terms of how much money he has spent. And that guy is Jeb Bush.    Look at this. Jeb Bush nearly triples his nearest competitor in terms of how  much ad spending any of the candidates have done this year. Jeb Bush has spent  $30 million already, just on TV ads, to try to improve his standing among  Republican primary voters.    And in that time, this is what`s happened, this is that little line there, this  is what`s happened to Jeb Bush`s standing in the polls in Iowa. This is what`s  happened to Jeb Bush`s standing in the polls in New Hampshire. This is what has  happened to Jeb Bush`s standing in the polls in South Carolina. And this is what  has happened to his standing in the polls nationwide.    That`s what $30 million has bought him in ad spending. That`s the polling  result. That`s the performance he has had from spending almost as much money as  all of the other Republican presidential candidates combined on his TV ads.    That is just terrible. You spend $30 million, you want your numbers to go up.    But that dynamic which is phenomenal, that shows just how wrong all of the old  received common wisdom of how presidential politics works now and how campaigns  win and lose now. I mean, at the very outset of the 2016 campaign, Jeb Bush was  clearly ripping a page out of his big brother`s presidential playbook from a  very long time ago when George W. Bush ran for the first time in 2000, he  basically cleared the field on the Republican side. He intimidated people out of  even try too long run against him by virtue of the fact that he raised so much  money so quickly.    George W. Bush in 2000 was loud and proud about his huge unprecedented  fund-raising numbers. And that worked as intimidation basically to keep some  would be competitors from even trying to run against him. Jeb Bush tried the  same thing this time around.    You know, a normal campaign might try to lower expectations in terms of how much  money they were going to raise and then they try to wow everybody when it came  time to announce their totals by telling everyone they exceeded their goals.    The Jeb Bush campaign didn`t do it that way. They said we`re going to raise $100  million immediately. We`re going to raise $100 million in three months basically  before the campaign even starts for anyone else. They bragged ahead of time that  they were going to raise that much money and then they did it.    And the working theory was that that tactic would work the same way for Jeb Bush  as it did for his big brother. That shocking intimidating fund-raising number  would keep the Republican field nice and small, and give Jeb instant  front-runner status and an air of inevitability that would pave his way to the  nomination.    He really did raise all that money. He really did try that strategy, $100  million announced loud and proud before the campaign even started. That was just  a tremendous fund-raising haul.    But after that point, nothing worked the way it was supposed to. I mean, despite  raising all that money, Jeb Bush ended up running in a historically enormous  17-person Republican candidate field. And now that he`s in that field, what was  supposed to be so intimidating about all that money, his ability to basically  buy the primary by blanketing the airwaves turns out it doesn`t work this year,  turns out Jeb Bush`s money is no good.    He`s been spending money like he is on fire and the money is flame retardant  foam, but it is not working, $30 million spent already as of December 1st. And  he`s settled in the polls at 5 percent on a good day.    Now, the flipside of this truly strange phenomenon is the guy who absolutely  positively really is winning the race for the Republican nomination. Donald  Trump`s numbers are among the highest they have been throughout his entire  campaign right now. They`ve plateaued for a while but they`re going back up  again in most places.    And in some ways his lead, particularly his national lead looks all the more  commanding now that Ben Carson seems to be falling apart.    But look at where Donald Trump is compared to the rest of the field and his ad  spending. Donald Trump is there far right side of your screen. He spent less  money on ads than any other candidate.    According to these new numbers from NBC News, Jeb Bush is outspending Donald  Trump in terms of TV ads at approximate rate of 133 to 1. Jeb Bush is spending  over 130 times what Donald Trump is spending for the completely opposite result.    And who knows, maybe Jeb Bush announcing today that he desires less gender  specificity in the thinking about the vice presidency, maybe that will turn it  all around for him. But in the meantime, with the rules of previous campaigns  not apparently applying to this one, the Republican Party appears to be  adjusting its expectations to account for the real, not joking possibility of a  Donald Trump Republican presidential nomination to the point where "New York  Times" reporter Jonathan Martin got a bunch of Republican officials who are  concerned about things like Senate races around the country to tell him today  that basically to state out loud to him today, their fears about what a Trump  candidacy would do to the rest of the Republican Party.    Quoting today from Jonathan Martin`s article in "The New York Times", quote,  "Many leading Republican officials strategists and donors now say they fear that  Mr. Trump`s nomination would lead to an electoral wipeout, a sweeping defeat  that could undo some of the gains Republicans have made in recent congressional  state and local elections."    Matt Borges, who`s chairman of the Ohio Republican Party tells "The Times",  quote, "If Donald Trump carries his message into the general election in Ohio,  we will hand this election to Hillary Clinton. We`ll then try to salvage the  rest of the ticket."    A former Republican Party chairman from the state of Illinois tells "The Times",  quote, "If Donald Trump is our nominee, the repercussions of that in this state  would be devastating."    Brian Walsh who is described as a Republican campaign Senate veteran, tells "The  Times", quote, "If we nominate a bad candidate like Donald Trump, Senators like  Rob Portman of Ohio or Kelly Ayotte in Hampshire are not going to be able to  outrun Hillary by that much and there goes the Senate."    An unnamed but, quote, "prominent" Republican senator also tells Jonathan Martin  at "The Times", quote, "there is not a bit of confusion among our members that  if Donald Trump is the nominee, we`re going to get wiped out." Meaning  Republicans are going to get wiped out in the United States Senate.    And so, there is this is interesting panic in the Republican Party that somebody  should do something to ensure that Donald Trump doesn`t win the presidential  nomination. It looks like is he on track to do that right now. But every time  somebody goes at him, they get chewed up and spat out. They end up the worse off  for it and he doesn`t.    Rick Perry was the first Republican presidential competitor to really try to  make his campaign all about stopping Donald Trump. Rick Perry was also the first  Republican contender to drop out of the race.    Then, Bobby Jindal for a while made Donald Trump his cause, as well, including  lots of cute little Instagram videos attacking Donald Trump and going out of his  way to talk smack about Donald Trump. And now, Bobby Jindal is out of the race,  as well.    Lindsey Graham is willing to talk on the record any time to anyone about how  much he`s against Donald Trump and how much he wants Donald Trump to not be the  nominee and how terrible Donald Trump would be for the Republican Party and the  country, but part of the reason Lindsey Graham is unavoidable for comment on  that subject is because I don`t know you are from Adam and neither does Eve, but  he`ll return your phone call if you call him. He`s not busy. He can`t even get  into the kids table in the debates anymore, he`s polling so low.    Rand Paul also tried to pick fights with Donald Trump when he was still allowed  onto the main teenage of the Republican debates. But now, Rand Paul, he too has  sunk so low that today, if the next Republican debate were being blocked and  staged today, Rand Paul is not polling high enough right now to make it onto the  main stage. He would be slated for the kids table if the next debate were held  today. He`s got two weeks to try to get his numbers up to try to scramble back  on the main stage.    It`s like each of these candidacies has just been cannon fodder for the Trump  phenomena. They`ve sort of proverbially shot themselves at Donald Trump. None of  them have hurt him at all. He`s doing better than ever, and they have all  suffered themselves quite significantly in the process.    And now we have a new contender, John Kasich has never been anything other than  a gutter ball in the polls all along but right now, his campaign is basically  devoting all of its energy to ads like this one against Donald Trump.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Now the poor guy, you got to see this guy. I don`t know what I said. I don`t remember.   
TV ANCHOR: He appeared to mock a reporter with a disability.  
TRUMP: He`s going I don`t remember. Maybe that`s what I said.  
TV ANCHOR: That reporter he is talking about is Serge Kovaleski, who now works with "The New York Times". As you can see right there, he suffers from a chronic  condition that impairs movement of his arm.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Trump says he mocking the reporter because he didn`t know what the reporter looked like. But in truth, they have known each other  personally for years.   
TRUMP: He`s going I don`t remember. Maybe that`s what I said.      
SUBTITLE: Is someone like Donald Trump worthy of following in their footsteps?   Is he?       
MADDOW: None of the other Republican candidates who have taken direct repeated shots at Donald Trump have had any effect on his popularity at all.    I happen to think that John Kasich ad is really good. I can -- I mean, I`m only  imagining but I can imagine people who like Donald Trump potentially liking him  a little bit less when they see that ad, in part because the ad really says  nothing against Mr. Trump. It just shows him.    But what you that ad stems from, what Donald Trump was talking about when he  mocked the disability of that reporter which has now led to this ad, was this  issue around 9/11 and Donald Trump`s claims that he personally remembers seeing  thousands of Muslims in New Jersey specifically in Jersey City, New Jersey,  celebrating and dancing in the streets when the World Trade Center towers came  down. He says he saw that. And he has repeated that over and over and over again  as everybody else who knows what happened then says it didn`t happen.    But that you controversy is what Donald Trump was talking about when he starred  physically mocking that reporter. That what has led to what I think is the most  effective anti-Trump ad that anybody has run anywhere this year.    And weirdly enough that one issue, that one set of lies he keeps telling over  and over and over again about 9/11 and this imagined reaction of American  Muslims to 9/11, this has now become one issue that seems like it may be  sticking to Donald Trump. In a year when none of the old rules seem to apply and  none of his rivals for the nomination seem to getting anywhere near him for love  or money, even for lots and lots and lots of money, Jeb Bush, is this one issue  that is getting bigger and not smaller as Donald Trump continues to lead the  field?    Joining us now somebody doing original reporting on this Trump story about 9/11,  his assertion Muslims in New Jersey were celebrating by the thousands, MSNBC  political correspondent Steve Kornacki.    Steve, thank you.   
STEVE KORNACKI, MSNBC POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Sure. Happy to be here.  
MADDOW: How has this story from Donald Trump evolved? Obviously, he`s sticking to it and he`s getting some mixed forms of support from some other Republican  sources now.   
KORNACKI: Yes. I mean, obviously, he`s sticking by it 100 percent. Rudy Giuliani has been a pretty good ally of Donald Trump through the years came out today and  very -- seemed trying to be politely to put himself in disagreement with Trump  on this. He said it wasn`t thousands but there may have been dozens, maybe 10,  11, maybe 30, 40 of Muslims, he was saying in New York City after 9/11 who were  celebrating this.   
MADDOW: Which again wasn`t what Trump claimed. Trump claimed it was thousands in Jersey City --       
KORNACKI: He it almost sounded like he was saying what Donald Trump was saying had something to it, not as much as what he was saying and Giuliani offered a  specific anecdote. He talked about a candy store owner in New York City who  according to Giuliani, he and his family had been celebrating a local group of  teenagers were upset when they saw this. They came over and basically beat the  guy up.    And Giuliani said this in a way that made it sound like the guy had it coming.    I thought it was curious. So, we went and looked at all the news stories we  could find from September 2001 in New York City. We found one story -- a series  of stories about one incident involving a candy store owner who a group of  teenagers thought to be Muslim.    There`s a reporter who happened to be interviewing this candy store owner as  this happened. The reporter was interviewing him. He said a group of five  teenagers showed up. They asked the guy if he was a Muslim. The guy barely spoke  any English, didn`t seem to understand what was happening. Next thing you knew,  they knocked him out cold.   
MADDOW: The teenagers attacked the store owner.  
KORNACKI: The teenagers attacked him in front of the reporter, knocked him out. His dentures were broken in half. There was blood on the floor. The teenagers  fled.    According to the reporter, they were never caught. They were never taken into  custody. There were no charges pressed.    Reporter told me he was absolutely certain this store owner had not been  celebrating or expressing any kind of glee about 9/11.    When we asked Giuliani`s people, we went to Giuliani`s office and said, look,  this is the only incident we can find that remotely matches what you`re  describing on the air, is this the incident? They said, no, it`s not this  incident. OK. What incident are you talking about?   
MADDOW: A different candy store incident.  
KORNACKI: We got a vague response that said he must have been told something orally.   
MADDOW: But no citation what it was.  
KORNACKI: No, they said this one article might shed light on this. The article was a "New York Post" column from September 14th, 2001 which is the same column  that Donald Trump`s campaign is now sending around to reporters and the author  of that column says basically that anecdotally had he heard about Arabs or  Palestinians or Egyptians celebrating in Patterson and parts of New Jersey. The  author of that column then has since said that he believes there might have been  dozens celebrating in the greater New York area but nothing on the scale.   
MADDOW: But he didn`t see any of it. It was things had he heard about.  
KORNACKI: Right.  
MADDOW: He wrote a column about rumors he heard at the time.  
KORNACKI: Exactly.  
MADDOW: And the one piece about the candy store that you can find is actually not about somebody celebrating 9/11 and being attacked because of it, but it  literally sounds like a hate crime, a guy who`s attacked for being perceived to  be a Muslim after 9/11.   
KORNACKI: And the interesting thing we found in tracking that down, in looking at all the key word searches we`re doing in the newspaper databases, we found  several stories from right after 9/11 in New York City, around New York City,  more than stories about Muslims in the streets celebrating we saw people being  targeted because they were Muslim or because they were suspected of being  Muslim.    There was another one, there was a Sikh individual who apparently was confused  people thought was a Muslim who was attacked. There were a number of stories  written in the days and weeks about that aspect of it which we`re not hearing  too much about it right now.   
MADDOW: And the fears and efforts by responsible politicians to head off attacks liking that is what prevented people from running off at the mouth with rumors  like Donald Trump is doing now even all these years later.    Steve, one last question on this. In terms of your political analysis of this,  is this 9/11 story with Donald Trump one of these things that folks in  mainstream politics think is going to hurt him but it`s not going to, or does  this potentially have some political peril for him?   
KORNACKI: I -- it`s one of those things you say now he`s the front- runner for the Republican nomination. I would agree with that. That`s where I put him.   
MADDOW: Yes.  
KORNACKI: If he were somehow to win the nomination, this is the kind of thing that can be remembered and that can create an impression and that can haunt him  as the general election candidate. I think there are a number of things with  Donald Trump that could happen with that. But in terms of the Republican  nomination right now, I`m not convinced it hurts him in that race.   
MADDOW: More than anything does.   MSNBC political correspondent, Steve Kornacki -- thank you. Your willingness to  pull that thread all the way and get to the bottom of that is really helpful.   
KORNACKI: It`s interesting. Thanks.  
MADDOW: Thanks, Steve.   All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.   
MADDOW: So these are some live pictures we just got in or pictures actually just from moments ago, an a couple minutes ago. We`ve been keeping an eye tonight on  Chicago.    This is an ongoing protest happening right now, Black Lives Matters outside  Chicago police headquarters. There was big and I think fairly unexpected news  out of Chicago today. The city`s top police officer there was fired today after  the officer involved shooting of an unarmed black teenager and the fallout  thereafter.    We`re going to have the latest from Chicago including an eye on those protests  just ahead. Stay with us.   
MADDOW: We`ve got the latest on Chicago coming up in just a moment as I just said. But President Obama has just arrived back home tonight in Washington. He  just got back from Paris where, of course, he was working on the big  international climate deal.    While he was in Paris working on the big international climate deal, leaving  behind a huge U.S. delegation there to negotiate America`s role in that  agreement, while that was all under way today, the Republican-led Congress was  working visibly to try to undermine our own president and our own government`s  negotiating position in those talks.    Congress today passed two bills directly aimed at undermining President Obama`s  Paris negotiations bills that would block the federal rules to reduce power  plant emissions in this country. Now, these votes in both the house and Senate  they were largely along party lines. Both of these things will be vetoed.  There`s really no question about that whatsoever.    But passing these things actually into law was never the point here, they were  timed specifically to try to cause President Obama maximum embarrassment in his  engagement with other countries as the leader of the United States.    The Republican congressman who led the effort on these bills today said, quote,  "We want the world to know that there is disagreement with the president on this  issue."    So, legislation specifically designed to undermine the president and hurt his  negotiating position with other world leaders while he was overseas involved in  those negotiations.    Your Congress at work, your American Congress at work.    We`ll be right back.       
MADDOW: The head of the Chicago Police Department began today with an interview early this morning on the local NBC affiliate in Chicago. For the past week in  Chicago, there`s really only been one big story. It`s been the police killing of  17-year-old Laquan McDonald who was shot 16 times by a single officer. That  shooting happened more than a year ago in October, 2014.    Last week, just hours before a court order was about to force the city to  release the dashcam video of that shooting, just hours before that, prosecutors  charged the officer with first degree murder in that case. It was more than a  year after the shooting, and it was just hours before they had to make public  the video of that shooting.    The lawyer for that officer whose named Jason Van Dyke says that he will fight  the charge vigorously. The officer was released from jail yesterday on a $1.5  million bond. But what that interviewer today on WMAQ wanted to talk about with  Chicago`s top police officer, what she wanted to ask the Chicago police  superintendent about this morning was this is document which we have obtained  tonight.    This is the preliminary press release that the Chicago Police Department put out  the day after Laquan McDonald was killed more than a year ago. It says, quote,  "Officers confronted the armed offender who refused to comply with orders to  drop the knife and copied to approach the officers."    So the official press release echoed the police union`s statement from the time  of the shooting saying Laquan McDonald had lunged at police, that he had posed a  serious and immediate threat, but that description which came first from the  police union and then from the police department, that description does not  match what is on that dashcam video.    I`m only going to play a few seconds of it here. I`m not going to show you the  whole thing. This is your chance to look away if you do not want to see it. If  you do watch, you can see here, these are the moments just before he is shot  with the first of 16 bullets from one officer.    This is what the Chicago police department decided to publicly describe as  Laquan McDonald continuing to approach the officers. That`s how they described  it. And despite having that tape that showed the opposite, they then went silent  about it for a year.    And so early this morning, that local NBC affiliate in Chicago asked the police  superintendent, what explained that? What explained the difference between what  they knew, what they had seen and what they told the public and let stay the  public story for more than a year. Watch.       
INTERVIEWER: There was a press release that was put out by your office a day after the shooting that said ha this young man was going towards the police  officer. I assume that you okayed that press release to go out.   
GARRY MCCARTHY, CHICAGO POLICE: Actually, I don`t review every single press release but at the end of the day, I`m accountable.   
INTERVIEWER: Exactly. So, when did you see the video we`re looking at right here? When did you see that?   
MCCARTHY: After the press release. I saw the video the next day. The initial press release was mistaken, no two ways about it. I guess that`s my fault  because I`m accountable for it.       
MADDOW: The original press release was mistaken. But Chicago officials left that mistaken impression out there for a year. They issued that preliminary press  release and never corrected it even after video of the shooting had been viewed  by everybody up to and including the police superintendent. They said the  investigation was on going and then they stopped talking. Even though they knew  that what was still out there as the last thing the public had been told about  this case was wrong, was wrong. No two ways about it.    Last week, after the state`s attorney for Cook County announced a murder charge  for the officer in that killing, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel stood with his  police superintendent, called for peace and calm and healing.    Today, it was a different story. Today, Mayor Emanuel fired that police  superintendent.       
MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL, CHICAGO: This morning, I formally asked for his resignation. Now is the time for fresh eyes and new leadership to confront the challenges the  department and our community and our city are facing as we go forward.       
MADDOW: The mayor pointed out today that Laquan McDonald`s case is still being investigated by the FBI and the Justice Department, but the scope of those  investigations may get a lot bigger. Tonight, the Illinois attorney general is  calling for the Department of Justice to step in and look at not just this one  case but look at the entire Chicago Police Department. The same way that the  justice department has looked at policing in Ferguson and Baltimore and  Cleveland and other cities.    The Illinois A.G. is asking the U.S. attorney general, Loretta Lynch, for a full  investigation into the patterns and practices of the Chicago PD, citing police  killings and allegations going back more than 15 years.    Joining us now is Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve. She`s assistant professor at the  Department of Criminal Justice at Temple University and she`s done research on  the Chicago Cook County court system. She`s author of an upcoming book called  "Crook County: Racism and Injustice in America`s Criminal Courts."    Professor, thanks for being here.   
NICOLE GONZALEZ VAN CLEVE, TEMPLE UNIV. ASST. PROF. OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE: Thank you for having me.   
MADDOW: Obviously it`s always a matter of political accountability when somebody who holds a top job gets fired. Do you think that getting rid of this  superintendent will have an effect on how things work in the police department  and in law enforcement in Cook County?   
VAN CLEVE: You know, when you fire the leadership, it makes all you have us feel better in terms of accountability. We don`t want to see many of these leaders  Anita Alvarez, perhaps Rahm Emanuel and definitely the chief of police staying  in office after we see such a terrible abuse of power and a potential cover-up.    But as a sociologist, we know cultural change doesn`t come from -- in some ways  getting rid of the leadership. There is rank and file racism in the police  department, racism that I saw in a decade study of the Cook County court system,  and it goes all the way into the prosecution`s office, where I started back in  1997 and began researching it.   
MADDOW: In a sociological study, especially a longitudinal one like that, what are the manifestations of racism that you see?   
VAN CLEVE: You know, again as a young person, prosecutors took me under their wing. They refer to defendants as mopes which had all the stigmatizing meanings  as the "N" word. They paraded victims` photos with a sense of one-upmanship and  even my supervisor had framed a visual of an evidence photo where a black boy  had gotten shot by a store owner when he tried to rob the store.    And I thought, you know, what a culture that there`s such a lack of regard for  life. And in that will environment, it became easy to lie or hide moments of  egregious abuse by the police officers. They walked into the prosecutor`s office  and they often talked about defendants using blatant racism and prosecutors  never corrected them. They looked the other way. And they looked the other way  on shaded cases where police officers were altering you know arrest reports,  making sure the amount of drugs seized hit the felony limit and no one turned,  you know it, didn`t make anybody`s head turn.   
MADDOW: In terms of the overall thesis of your book "Crook County" and the way that this is playing out right now in Chicago, when you talk about those sort of  those cultural manifestations of racism and long- standing ingrained just ways  of doing business, can you tell what might change those cultural things? I mean,  obviously, the leadership is a political accountability moment. If this is  pervasive in the way you`re describing, what would fix it?   
VAN CLEVE: One prosecutor in my study he described a case that was hauntingly similar to Laquan McDonald`s case. There was somebody a defendant was shot. And  the police officer`s stories didn`t make sense. He had the wherewithal to try to  go to upper management and at every level of command, he was belittled.    At one point, he describes a top management throwing an ashtray at him. They  wouldn`t let him see Mayor Daley at the time. So, this is going back really far.    So, there needs to be a way where good prosecutors and good police officers can  whistle blow, and be protected.   
MADDOW: That`s a policy matter. I mean, whistleblower encouragement and protection is something there`s an art to it. There`s a policy art to it.   
VAN CLEVE: Right, there`s no protections for those prosecutors. What you find is they leave the office, completely discouraged. And a lot of them then become,  they become desensitized. They look the other way consistently even in the face  of these terrible miscarriages of justice.   
MADDOW: Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve, assistant professor in criminal justice at Temple University, again, the forthcoming "Crook County: Racism and Injustice in  America`s criminal courts." Thank you for being here tonight.    We`re keeping an eye tonight on these protests underway now at Chicago police  headquarters. People in Chicago still very angry and very upset and very  emotional even with this news that the superintendent has been fired.    Thanks for being with us.   
VAN CLEVE: Thank you.  
MADDOW: We`ll be back. Stay with us.  
MADDOW: June 19th, 5014, the middle of last summer, President Obama announced he would send up to 300 U.S. soldiers back into Iraq, as military advisors. That  was June 19th.    Less than two weeks later, June 30th, the president sent a letter to Congress  deploying another 200 more troops to Iraq.    Six weeks later, August 14th, then Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel announced  another 130 troops would be sent to Iraq again as military advisors.    Two and a half weeks after that, September 2nd, White House Press Secretary Josh  Earnest they would be sending 350 more.    A week later, September 10th, President Obama gave a speech where he announced  another 475 U.S. troops that would be sent to support and train Iraqi and  Kurdish forces.    Less than a month after that, November 7th, the White House announced another  1500 more Americans into Iraq to train, advise and assist in the mission against  ISIS.    Then this summer, June 10th, 450 more military advisors announced in a statement  by White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest. That was all in Iraq. Then, October  30th, came the announcement by the White House that the president was  authorizing 50 Special Operations forces to deploy to Syria.    And now today, more. There are already about 3,500 U.S. troops in Iraq. You  know, added bit by bit, announcement by announcement, very quietly over all this  time. Now, it`s an additional deployment into Iraq and this time they`re calling  it a -- what`s the phrase they`re using? -- specialized expeditionary targeting  force, which as far as we know is a term that nobody`s ever used before.       
ASH CARTER, DEFENSE SECRETARY: In full coordination with the government of Iraq, we`re deploying a specialized expeditionary targeting force to assist Iraqi and  Kurdish Peshmerga forces and put even more pressure on ISIL. These special  operators will over time be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather  intelligence and capture ISIL leaders. This is force will also be in a position  to conduct unilateral operations in Syria.       
MADDOW: A specialized expeditionary targeting force. That is what Secretary of Defense Ash Carter is calling this latest deployment, a new standing American  force based inside Iraq with the intention of them sometimes striking over the  border inside Syria.    But a Pentagon official is telling NBC News even though we don`t have direct  word from Ash Carter about the size of that force, an official tells NBC it`s  going to be something in the Barack Obama of 100 to 150 special operators.    So, this is the latest one, but it is just the latest one in what is now over a  year of escalation, a tacit, steady, undebated, undeclared expansion of this  U.S. war effort in Iraq and Syria. It is basically now a constant and steady  crescendo of escalation in this war, even though there`s been no debate, no  vote, and no political fight over it.       
SUBTITLE: Today at the TRMS production meeting.  
JULIA NUTTER, TRMS PRODUCER: So, it does look like they showed some racist and obscene photos at the press conference.   
MADDOW: Tell me more.  
NUTTER: I`m not happy about it.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, yes.  
NUTTER: It`s not good.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s not good.      
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Like here`s that. It`s the wrong kind of racist. It`s not going to help.   
MADDOW: They showed these?  
NUTTER: I mean I`ve seen them.  
MADDOW: What are you looking at?  
NUTTER: This is the press conference. They showed this.  
SUBTITLE: That story is coming up.      
MADDOW: Got another one.   In federal criminal court yesterday, a jury convicted the speaker of the New  York state assembly. The jury found the long time Democratic speaker guilty of  multiple corruption counts, including some nice stuff like extortion and money  laundering. The speaker faced seven criminal charges and for each of the seven,  the jury voted guilty.    Now, if you`re keeping track at home that makes three straight House speakers  criminally convicted in little more than a year. First, there was South  Carolina, and there was Rhode Island, now, we`ve got New York and we may have go  to go.    In Alabama, the House speaker was criminally indict last October and then got  re-elected after his indictment. Whoo-hoo! And he`s still serving as house  speaker while this case plays out. You go, Alabama. We`re looking at you next.    But when it comes to statewide officials under criminal indictment, one we`ve  been watching is Kathleen Kane of Pennsylvania. She`s the first Democrat and  first woman elected to the state`s top legal job. But Kathleen Kane now holds  the distinction of being the practicing attorney general of the state of  Pennsylvania without actually being a practicing attorney.    The back story as to how she ended up getting indicted and stripped of her law  license has to do was porn and racist and obscene e-mails, but not ones that  were hers. Kathleen Kane was criminally indicted for allegedly leaking grand  jury documents to try to embarrass her political opponents and then lying about  those leaks. Those documents concerned public officials and government employees  in Pennsylvania looking at porn and sending sexually he explicit and really,  really racist e-mails while at work using their work computers. She`s been  charged with leaking that embarrassing stuff.    And the way Kathleen Kane is fighting back, even after they indicted her is by  basically draping that dirty laundry all over Pennsylvania. As we predicted that  she would do, today at Philadelphia`s National Constitution Center where you can  explore America`s founding documents and gaze upon 42 bronze life sized  sculptures of the Founding Fathers. Today, Kathleen Kane projected a bunch of  hardcore pornography.    This is the video from the press event. We had to blur it this much to make it  presentable on basic cable. I should tell you that Kathleen Kane has appointed a  special administrator in this case, the former attorney general of the state of  Maryland. He says he plans to eventually release all of the thousands and  thousands of these sexually explicit, racists, misogynist, anti-gay e-mails  circulated by state officials on work time at their work computers.    So, there appears to be plenty more where this came from. The situation right  now in Pennsylvania is basically pure chaos.    Because the Pennsylvania attorney general is not an attorney anymore, nobody  knows for sure whether she really can appoint this special prosecutor she says  she`s appointed. Pennsylvania criminal suspects are saying the state`s charges  against them do not count. The state senate is moving ahead to try to remove  Kathleen Kane from office. The attorney general has this plan for defending  herself that we cannot show you on TV.    It is pure chaos. Fascinating, but it is pure pixelated chaos at this point.   
MADDOW: So, one of the weirder hallmarks of the Obama era seem to be the endless lineup of people trying and failing or trying and succeeding to get on to the  White House grounds where President Obama lives.    In March last year, a man climbed the White House fence in broad daylight. Got  arrested.    Later that summer, it was a toddler who didn`t jump the fence but was able to  squeeze right through it.    In September, another guy jumped the fence. That time, it triggered a lockdown.    Later that same month, there was another one, this time a guy not only jumped  the fence, he ran all the way across the north lawn, then ran inside the White  House. The man was armed with a life. He jumped the fence, made it all the way  across the lawn, made it through the north portico doors, was well into the  interior of the ground floor of the White House before he was finally taken down  by a Secret Service agent who had finished his shift and was on his way home for  the night.    It was after that that the Secret Service decided, yes, there`s a lot of things  wrong here, but maybe the White House fence itself could give us a little more  help in stopping these things from happening.    After that last incident where the guy ran into the White House, the Secret  Service and the Park Service installed these temporary bike racks around the  White House fence to try to deter people from getting near it, maybe? Are bike  racks an additional deterrent? It`s very hard to say.    But then this summer, the Secret Services and the National Park service  installed something now. They installed these temporary steel spikes. They  called them pencil protrusions. They screwed these pencil protrusions into the  top of the existing fence. They called it a removable anti-climb mechanism. So,  this intimidating bit of scenery here, this was our attempt at a mock-up of the  new and improved White House fence.    We wanted to understand was this just security theatre, right? Was this  something that would just have a visual effect, or could this materially affect  a person`s ability to get over the fence and on to the White House grounds?    So, we got a mock-up of a new addition to the fence made in foam. Yes, it lives  on our window sill now in our offices. We got the one made in foam. We also got  one made a scale model made in metal.    And these new spikes that they added, these pencil protrusion spikes, they  seemed to us like they would make it way harder to climb the White House fence.  It certainly makes it tougher to get a hand hold without hitting something  spiking. But that`s what they stalled at the actual White House this summer.    And since then, there`s been a noticeable quieting of people hoisting themselves  over the fence and making a beeline for the president`s house. And it was  apparently working, until Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving Day, approximately 2:45  p.m., the first family is enjoying turkey dinner, dude jump jumped over the new  and improved spiky fence.    He`s a 22-year-old guy, a college student from Stanford, Connecticut. We do not  yet what his motives were. His lawyer says he was a politically conscious young  man who was trying to, quote, "deliver a message". He was arrested. He was  ordered to get a mental health evaluation.    In terms of his penetration into the White House, though, he never made it close  into the actual building of the White House. He was caught by Secret Service  agents within moments of hitting the grass on the other side of the fence.    But the point here, the point, is that he appeared to have no problem of getting  over the fence itself even with the brand-new spikes. Look, here he is  straddling the fence. You can see he has a binder in his mouth. That`s  supposedly his own rewritten version of the Constitution.    You can also see that without too much trouble, he was able to scale the fence,  swing his leg over the fence and the new pencil protrusion spikes before landing  safely on the ground on the other side without any apparent holes being poked in  his person. And then he lifts his hands in the air just before he started  running towards the White House when he was then stop and arrested by the Secret  Service.    But the hands issue ends up being key to figuring out how he did it. Check out  this photo again. Here`s what court documents say the fence jumper had on him  when they detained him -- an American flag, which you can see on his back here,  the USB flash drive, the binder filled with paper and weight lifting gloves.    It appears he was actually able to grab hold of the new spikier spikes because  of his low-tech hand protection in the form of a cheap pair of padded weight  lifting gloves. Apparently, that`s all it took. All this extra spikey welded  security, right, a whole addition to the White House fence can apparently be  foiled with weight lifts gloves you can buy at the gym for 20 bucks.    National Park Service says the pencil protrusion spikes are not supposed to be  an end all-be all of the White House fence. They`re temporary thing until they  submit a design solution for some whole new fence this upcoming summer.    But whatever they come up with, let this be a lesson, right? To test a thing  against basic sporting goods technology that maybe even somebody busy writing  his own version of a Constitution and printing into a binder that he`s going to  jump the fence with, even somebody like that has time and opportunity to find  this kind of equipment at the local strip mall.    We thought it was so good, but he beat it with this.    That does it for us tonight. We`ll see you again tomorrow.    Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL".    Good evening, Lawrence.    THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE  UPDATED.   
