    
HIGHLIGHT: President Obama heads to Paris. That city, once again, on the world`s stage. This time in an effort to save the planet. News on the Planned Parenthood  shooting. Frank Gifford`s family announces the former NFL player suffered from  CTE.     
RICHARD LUI, MSNBC ANCHOR: The kind of news that could shake up the race for the Republican nomination. Good morning I`m Richard Lui. Thanks for getting up with  us this Sunday morning. In Colorado, what the suspect in Friday`s shooting has  told investigators. Plus, we`ll tell you what Planned Parenthood says leads to  this kind of violence.    President Obama heads to Paris. That city, once again, on the world`s stage.  This time in an effort to save the planet. Also, it`s the first Sunday game day  for the NFL since Frank Gifford`s family announced he suffered from a concussion  related illness, another Giants Hall of Famer will be along here with us to talk  about that.    In politics, Donald Trump is speaking out this hour about his claim that he  witnessed American Muslims cheering in the aftermath of the September 11th  attacks. We`ll be joined by two prominent Republican Muslims to find out how  they are dealing with all of that rhetoric. And Chris Christie picks up a huge  endorsement in New Hampshire overnight. Could it be enough to turn the race  around for him and for the rest of them? But first, we want to take you straight  to Paris as we look at the Place de la Republique where we have seen hundreds,  if not thousands after the Paris attacks gathered. Now, they are there in  advance of the climate change climate summit discussions. And they are not in  support of what may or may happen. Some in support of what has been - going to  be proposed at those discussions as they kick off tomorrow. We`ll be going live  to Paris very shortly, 3:00 in the afternoon local time in Paris, France.    But we are going to start this hour in Colorado Springs where almost two days  after three people were killed in a shooting at a Planned Parenthood clinic  there, we have new information about the suspected gunman, and what he said to  police after he was taken into custody. Law enforcement sources telling NBC News  that when Robert Dear was taken in for questioning he said "No more baby parts,"  in an apparent reference to Planned Parenthood, but authorities stressed that  the suspect said many things to law enforcement and that the motive still cannot  be determined. The "Colorado Gazette" reporting this morning that most recently,  the suspect lived as a recluse in the town of Hartsell, in a travel trailer with  a woman and at least two dogs, about 65 miles west of Colorado Springs.  Meanwhile, a vigil was held last night on the University of Colorado at Colorado  Springs campus, as members of the community remembered Officer Garrett Swasey,  who was killed in that attack.       
STEPHANIE HANENBERG, EXEC. DIR. HEALTH SERVICES, UCCS: He was just an amazing man that everybody loved to have here. He will be missed.   
CHIEF BRIAN MCPIKE, UCCS POLICE DEPARTMENT: His wife is so proud of her husband. Yes. She knew what he loved to do, and she knew the risks.       
LUI: Joining me now from Colorado Springs is NBC`s Leanne Gregg. And now, another day has passed. We are on a Sunday, normally a day of worship there in  Colorado Springs and many remembering the officer who lost his life.   
LEANNE GREGG, COLORADO SPRINGS, CO: That`s right. They certainly are. Yesterday, several vigils were held and today the investigation is continuing. They`re  still looking into Dear`s past, they`re talking with people who knew him and  they are going through mounds of evidence that still needs to be processed. On  Saturday, the U.S. attorney general said that the federal government would  provide any assistance it could in this investigation, and meanwhile the  community does continue to mourn. One of those vigils held last night was in  honor of Officer Garrett Swasey, killed in the attack. He was described as a  kind and a selfless man, a good police officer, a father of two. He also was a  champion ice skater. He was close friends and grew up with former Olympic skater  Nancy Kerrigan who said he was one of her best friends.   
NANCY KERRIGAN, OLYMPIC FIGURE SKATER: They are like family, truly instrumental in my life and in my growing up as a person and in my career. David Swasey  picked me up every day in high school, whether Garrett was sick or well, coming  with us or not he`d still pick me up and drove me to the rink every day.   
GREGG: David Swasey was Garrett`s father. We still don`t know anything about the other two people who were killed in the attack. Their identities won`t be  revealed until after the autopsies are finished, that possibly will happen  tomorrow. Richard?   
LUI: Leanne Gregg, NBC`s Leanne Gregg. Thank you so much for that live report in Colorado Springs.    Let`s bring in Jim Cavanaugh, MSNBC law enforcement analyst and retired ATF  special agent. Jim, you`ve been watching this since Friday, you were reporting  on this, giving us your perspective on Friday on this very issue. We`re now  several days past. What is your thought here? You know, officials being somewhat  careful on motive, but we have the suspect`s mention of body parts as I was just  mentioning the quote that we`re hearing from sources. What do you make of what  that might mean?   
JIM CAVANAUGH, MSNBC LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, I think the motive is really getting clearer by the minute and, you know, targeting we always use in  determining motive and when we look at the motives of violent crime, you know,  power, greed, revenge, hate and escape, this guy is not robbing the Planned  Parenthood, he`s shooting everybody at the Planned Parenthood. He has no revenge  motive that we know about, he didn`t work there, he wasn`t fired from there.  This is a power motive. He wants to impart his view, his will on the people  running the Planned Parenthood or people like them that provide abortion  services to women. It`s like a terror motive. Terrorists use a power motive.  They want to impart their will on you, they want to control you. And I don`t  think that`s going to change much, Richard, his comments of the baby parts is  indicative of what`s in his mind. What - authorities also have to be cautious  because, you know, they have a criminal case and they can`t say something that  might change and they have defense attorneys to deal with, but it`s pretty  obvious that this is flushing out to be a motive where he attacked the clinic  because they provide abortion services.   
LUI: I want to get your thought on this coming from the "Colorado Spring Gazette" not confirmed by NBC News as of yet. They are saying that the suspect  solitary, as you heard, lived in a remote area, passed out anti- Obama pamphlets  and registered as an unaffiliated female. All of this, of course, preliminary  here. What does that tell you about what you might be looking forward to try to  put this all together?   
CAVANAUGH: That he pays attention to current events, to politics that he`s reading newspapers or on the web watching television. He`s paying attention to  those things and those things are affecting him and he decides that he`s going  to act it out in a violent way. He didn`t have a violent criminal record. He`s  not a convicted felon, and he apparently doesn`t have a mental record of being  treated for mental illness. So, there`s, you know, we can`t just always say  mental illness to excuse violent murder. I mean he murdered a police officer  from the University of Colorado, he murdered two other people who were at the  clinic.    There`s always a little underlying and some psychopathy probably in there, the  doctors will have to tell us, but it`s also a vicious, violent crime with a  power motive most likely to attack the clinic that provided the services to  women and we`ve seen that, Richard, in America unfortunately for 45 years,  bombings, arsons, murders in doctor`s clinics and I personally have worked many  of them, so it`s not a new thread of violence in America.   
LUI: Jim, thank you so much for joining us this morning. MSNBC law enforcement analyst Jim Cavanaugh. Thank you.   
CAVANAUGH: Thank you, Richard.  
LUI: Now, the motive of the Planned Parenthood clinic shooter not necessarily perfectly clear as Jim Cavanaugh was telling us. It`s clear Planned Parenthood  has been under intense scrutiny, both in Washington and on the campaign trail as  well. This summer, the anti-abortion group, Center for Medical Progress released  several controversial videos, which made it seem as though Planned Parenthood  officials were selling fetal tissue for profit. Planned Parenthood maintains the  videos were "deceptively and misleadingly edited." Republican presidential  candidates boosted by the outrage over those videos regularly deride Planned  Parenthood and the services the organization provides. And Congress opened an  investigation into that matter, leading to nearly four hours of testimony by  Planned Parenthood President Cecil Richards. And the congressional push to  defund the organization as well. The investigation found no evidence of  wrongdoing.    Now, with the organization under verbal attack in Washington in recent months,  investigators are looking into the strong possibility the clinic was  specifically targeted. Vicki Cowart, president and CEO of Planned Parenthood  Rocky Mountains addressed the recent violence yesterday in an interview with  NBC`s Miguel Almaguer.       
VICKI COWART, PLANNED PARENTHOOD ROCKY MOUNTAINS: Here`s a hate speech going on in our country right now that could be causing more violence than we might  otherwise see.       
LUI: Joining me now from Washington is Jess McIntosh, vice president of communications at Emily`s. Thanks for joining us. You know, according to Mother  Jones since those videos released there have been at least four suspected arsons  as well as at least according to what we`ve seen five cases of vandalism  targeting abortion clinics around the country. Why are we seeing this?   
JESS MCINTOSH, EMILY`S UGT: I mean the abortion clinics and women`s health clinics in general have been under attack for quite some time. It`s rare that we  see an actual murder. It`s been about six years since that`s happened, but we  have seen dramatic uptick in arsons and vandalism and acid attacks in attempted  bombings. I think that the videos themselves were a form of attack on one  woman`s health clinic, it was trespassing, it was severe violation of patient  privacy. The things that they were filming without women`s consent were just  really quite appalling and it`s not just Planned Parenthood that maintains the  videos were selectively and deceptively edited. Their own filmmaker who said  that the videos had been selectively edited, they suggested some scenes were  taking place inside Planned Parenthoods that had nothing to do with Planned  Parenthood. They laid over voice overs to make it seem like they were describing  something that wasn`t happening, they cut things out and said that they had been  in there all along. But what`s the most disturbing is in the wake of these  videos, Republican presidential candidates have jumped all over them. We have  seen Congress spent taxpayer money investigating videos that were just flat out  lies and perpetuating this really dangerous overheated rhetoric about what it is  that Planned Parenthood does, which is provide health care to millions of  American women.   
LUI: Jess, when you look at what was said by Jim Cavanaugh just moments ago about this being a power play what is your thought about that?   
MCINTOSH: I think that made a lot of sense. You know, obviously, I don`t want to rush to ascribe motive to something where I`m certainly not on the ground or  knowing anything, but there does seem to be a real desire to control women`s  ability to make these decisions for themselves, and more often that happens on  the legislative level and we`re not talking about anything physically violent,  but all over the country, we are seeing people chip away at women`s ability to  have safe legal abortion care, whether it`s in Texas, where they`re attempting  to close down just about every abortion clinic available to Texas women to  Congress, where Mitch McConnell promises to put defunding Planned Parenthood in  the very next Obamacare repeal bill right after the Thanksgiving holiday. We`re  seeing this all over where there is an attempt to make it much more difficult  for women to access what is a right for them to have abortion care. And women  are - I mean seven in ten want to keep Roe v. Wade exactly as it is. This is not  actually a controversial issue among the majority of American, women American  voters. It just seems to be in our political system.   
LUI: Jess McIntosh, thank you so much, from Emily`s List.  
MCINTOSH: Thanks.  
LUI: We take it back to Paris, the story we are watching there. Some of the live pictures here as folks gather there at Place de la Republique. It was a key core  during the post-Paris attacks of gathering - remembrances. Now, they are  gathering to either support or not support what will be happening as the  discussion of climate change is had by 140 world leaders, including President  Obama. NBC News` Gabe Gutierrez is live in Paris there at - watching what is  going to be happening. What will be discussed, Gabe?   
GABE GUTIERREZ, NBC NEWS: High there, Richard. Good afternoon from Paris. We`re here at the Arch de Triumph. And not far from us, theand Place de  la Republique, as you mentioned. Tear gas has been volleyed, and protesters have  gotten into some scuffles with police. Now, as you know, France is under a state  of emergency and public demonstrations are banned. Earlier this morning, we were  at the Place de la Republique. And climate change activists had laid down  thousands of shoes to protest what they saw as their voices being silenced in a  way. They said that the world needed to pay attention to climate change. There  were some, though, that felt that the state of emergency was appropriate and for  their own safety the public demonstrations should not be allowed. This is a  massive climate conference. As you mentioned, 140 heads of state are expected,  tens of thousands of people, highways will be shut down here in Paris, public  transportation also will be limited, but as you mentioned, Richard, right now a  situation is unfolding there at the Place de la Republique just to our East.  There has been tear gas, no word on any injuries right now, and no word on  exactly what sparked the confrontation with police.    We know that the security has been ramping up here in Paris over the last few  days. Since the beginning of November 120,000 troops and police officers have  been deployed throughout the country and for this climate conference, 2800 or so  were going to be at the site. Now, this demonstration is developing in Paris.  The actual climate conference will be just to the north of Paris. But as you can  see, Richard, this is a developing situation and climate change activists, some  of them, not happy with the fact that they were not allowed to protest. Now, in  the last few hour as well, there has been - some that formed the human chain,  but up until the last hour or so, there hadn`t been any major confrontation with  police. Again, we are still waiting to see how this situation unfolds. Richard,  back to you.   
LUI: Very busy month so far there in Paris. Gabe Gutierrez live for us, thank you so much.    I want to turn to our panel, the executive director of the New York State  Democratic Party Basil Smickle Jr., Republican strategist and former White House  aide to President George H.W. Bush Joe Watkins and political scientist NYE  professor Jeannie Zaino.    So, the president, there a couple of things happening right now. First of all,  the post Paris attacks, have to address that certainly and then second of all a  very large objective for the president in terms of climate change. How does he  balance the two of those?   
BASIL SMICKLE JR.: Well, I think what`s interesting is that there have been scholars who have said all along that climate change impacts national security  and it impacts - it impacts terror. And I think bringing those two together in  Paris at this summit, the president`s taking it from sort of a top-down approach  and going to ground and saying look, we need to have a real honest discussion  about climate change and its impact on the security of all of our countries and  I hope that message sticks, but I know he`s been having it in his conversation  with world leaders.   
LUI: And the U.N. secretary-general said the very same thing, when you look at climate change you have to consider all of these other spheres. And so, Joe, the  question might be, what is the win for the president?   
REV. JOE WATKINS, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Well, the win is doing what`s best for the United States and what`s best for the world and how do you do that? I mean  we`ve got so many issues at play here. I mean you just have the incident a  couple of weeks ago or a few days ago where the Turkey - Turkey shot down a  Russian plane, a Russian jet. You had the incident, of course, the terrorist  incident in Paris which still has got that city in its grips. I was actually  there the day it happened with my wife, we were there on vacation in Paris, and  so we know what it was like for people in that part of the world, that country.  But ...   
LUI: Right, and we watch it from the outside, but when you`re there on the ground here, Jeannie, and all 140 some-odd leaders are going to be there, they  are going to see it front and center, it`s going to take away or bifurcate some  of the energy that at least was leading -- this was long planned, the big debate  about whether to continue this or not is going to pull away from that one of the  objectives from the president, $100 billion a year for some countries who cannot  afford climate change issues. For the president here then, what is it that he`ll  be able to ask for that will be a win? Because the $100 billion doesn`t seem  like it`s possible especially when you look at what`s happening on the streets  here.   
JEANNIE ZAINO, POLITICAL STRATEGIST: Yeah. And I think what we`re seeing, is we`re seeing the repercussions of having this terrorist attack and as you  mentioned, this climate change talks which have been planned for a very long  time and enormous part of the president`s legacy. This is something that  President Obama has put a lot of stock in, didn`t talk about it necessarily in  2012 like many Democrats thought he should have. But it has been the focus of  his second term, he would like nothing more than to come out of this with being  the first president of the United States to seriously address climate change,  because it hasn`t happened yet, and yet with the terrorist attack hanging over  to him to Basil`s point, let`s not forget, a few weeks ago Bernie Sanders tied  terrorism to climate change and was laughed off the stage by many Republicans.  So, that`s going to be a hard needle, I think, for the president to thread and  you are going to have very serious protesters there who feel like they`re being  shut down for security reasons and unable to talk about issues they care about.    So, I think this is a very hard needle for the president to thread at this  point.   
LUI: With all of that, and then the president having to communicate not only to the 140 leaders, but also to the world and then to the United States and the  electorate and those in the House, right, and those who lead the states, and who  have to ratify these as they go forward. As, you know, I think there`s a couple  dozen states that are suing the president right now. So, we`re not going to  follow some of your initial climate change moves.   
WATKINS: He has got a whole host of things on his plate right now. He has got to figure out when he gets back to the States what is most important. So, you can`t  give equal weight to everything. So, he has got to consider the fact that you`ve  got state pushback on whether or not to allow refugees to come into their states  and that`s a huge issue for him and then you`ve got - you`ve got 80 huge issues.       
WATKINS: I mean where does this ball in terms of the huge issues. And he`s got - there`s a national election going on here in the United States, and we`ve got  these sad issues with gunmen killing people.   
LUI: But Joe, you know, what he does have as leader, if you will, of the "free world" as well as leader of a country that leads on climate change in some  spaces. So does that not help him?   
SMICKLE: Well, I think Secretary Kerry going back to your original question has also questioned the legality of some of what`s being decided in Paris, and  recognizes how difficult it`s going to be to come back to the United States and  try to get the states on board, but the reality is that I think the president  going to Jeannie`s point as well, and to Joe`s point, that of the issues that he  has to tackle this is going to define his legacy and I think he`s in a position  right now to go to Republicans and say, I dare you to tell me that I`m wrong,  especially if you can combine as he`s going to do, I imagine, the broader  concept, concerns about terrorism.   
LUI: Basil, I hate to interrupt you here, but we can see these live pictures as there`s activity there on Place de la Republique. It`s a busy afternoon there,  but it`s also a busy morning here, in the United States. We`re going to turn  after the break to the race for the president. It is 9:00 a.m. in the East, 9:20  or so and what`s happened overnight is the development of Chris Christie. But we  also have, of course, Ben Carson spending his Thanksgiving weekend meeting with  Syrian refugees in Jordan. What he is saying now about the trip and the people  he met. Donald Trump is also speaking out this hour about his claim he witnessed  American Muslims cheering as the Twin Towers fell and as I was mentioning, Chris  Christie getting a big political endorsement. Of all this together, could it  shake up the rest of the field as we move towards February?   
LUI: Busy afternoon in Paris, 3:23 in the afternoon, ahead of the climate discussions with over 100 world leaders we take you there right now, protesters  in the streets ahead of those talks, public demonstrations. The state remains in  a state of emergency, the city rather, in the wake of the terror attacks two  weeks ago, but that means no public demonstrations are allowed, so that`s the  conflict. Police have engaged with protesters throwing stun grenades, as you see  here. We`ll continue to watch what is happening. We saw a bit of a scrum about  ten minutes ago before we went to break, but that will be happening. We will  watch that for you here on MSNBC.    We`re going to get to what`s also developing in terms of a very busy morning in  the United States when it comes to politics, on the campaign trail. We`ll have  more later on new comments this hour from Donald Trump and Ben Carson about the  things they`ve said in the wake of the Paris terrorist attacks and New  Hampshire, though, this morning, this is what I want to tell you about, the  biggest political endorsement of the Republican season on the front page of this  morning`s "Manchester Union Leader" The big winner, you see the picture of them  on the left of that coveted endorsement. New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. The  Manchester newspaper writing "As a U.S. attorney and then a big state governor,  he is the one candidate who has the range and type of experience the nation  desperately needs." To our panel on this, so he has not done well in the polls  there. Does this surprise you?   
WATKINS: Well, you can`t - polls are sometime deceptive.  
LUI: Yes.  
WATKINS: Because remember, nobody saw Santorum coming back in 2012 and then suddenly he gets to Iowa and just blows everybody away in the Iowa caucus. The  same thing is true in New Hampshire. So, you don`t really know until you know.  Having ground game really matters and what we don`t know is how good the ground  game is with the various candidates. But this is a huge plus for Chris Christie.  This really puts him on the map now as a candidate. Because if he can win New  Hampshire, it`s a whole different ball game.   
ZAINO: Yeah, I also think that we have to be hesitant. Endorsements sometimes, especially in the very independently minded New Hampshire population, they`re  not likely to follow necessarily this endorsement, so I think it gives him  needed headlines and I think it`s important for that, but I`m not sure it`s  going to translate into votes necessarily.   
LUI: And it isn`t - a recent "Boston Globe"/Suffolk poll shows that he was way behind, 22 versus 4, I believe, percentage points. Get a little bit of a bump,  perhaps. But will it last? I guess it`s what ...   
SMICKLE: It won`t last that long. But look, he`s a northeastern Republican. It`s sort of the hometown, the son of the northeast, so to speak. So, if they`re  going to go with someone he`s the probably the most likely person to go with,  because he`s - I would imagine a bit more moderate than the rest of the  Republicans there.   
LUI: He is a Republican governor of a blue state.  
SMICKLE: Right. Right. And that`s exactly right. And so, I don`t see this as - I don`t see this as earth shattering, but it does give him legs.   
LUI: So, let`s throw this and the Paris attacks, the move for international and domestic security, also, you know, him working very hard to get that traction,  that part of, you know, tough guy. Does this actually have a halo effect in  other states outside of New Hampshire that can he build on?   
WATKINS: But we`ll see. You know, you have to have money to have organization, so it takes money. I mean anybody thinks that you can just get it because you  get an endorsement is fooling themselves. I mean you have got to have money,  because you have to pay people, you have to have staff on the ground in every  one of these states --   
LUI: OK, so this turns into money?  
WATKINS: Well, hopefully. That`s what you use this for, if you`re smart. And he`s a smart guy. "I`ve gotten two e-mails already this morning saying that he  has gotten the endorsement of the New Hampshire union leader. You send that  around to every giver. You say, you know what, we`ve changed the game, we are  gaining traction, we have a shot to win New Hampshire and suddenly you attract  money.   
ZAINO: But to your - do you think it helps that the issue has turned to terrorism for somebody like Chris Christie because that`s something where he`s  stronger on than, say, a Donald Trump or Ben Carson, certainly?   
LUI: We`ll get more of this ...  
WATKINS: It brings up more that he hugged the president.      
LUI: Hugged the president. We`ll have more on this a little bit later. We are going on break now. But first, we get an update on what`s happening there in  Paris, and as we move into the mid hour of 3:00, we`ll be watching what the  protests are having at Place de la Republique. This as the climate talks begin,  and the concern, of course, is what sort of law enforcement action will happen  as the demonstrators gather out there on the streets, they are not supposed to  be able to demonstrate during the state of emergency that is in place.   
LUI: President Obama and leaders from around the country are gathering here in Paris, hoping for wide reaching agreement on climate issues and a climate pact.  But there are demonstrators in the streets, and not without some conflict. Just  moments ago, there was tear gas grenades that were used seen here, close to  Place de la Republique, Place de la Republique is, of course, the location where  many individuals have gathered over the recent weeks after the Paris attacks.  This is not allowed, the demonstrations, and so therefore, as we`ve seen some  scrums at least this morning, it is now 3:30 in the afternoon there. We are  watching for yet more potential of conflict, of course those watching this hope  that that does not happen. We`ll have more on this on MSNBC.   
LUI: Watching breaking news coming out of Paris. Here, you see tear gas grenades being fired in Place de la Republique. What was a very peaceful for most of the  time over the last two weeks, remembrances of those who lost their lives at the  Paris attacks. Now, this conflict between demonstrators as well as law  enforcement there is because in the state of emergency it is not allowed to have  these gatherings. During the climate summit, no doubt increased pressure about  what might be happening as leaders try to put together what could be a $100  billion agreement to help various countries with climate issues. NBC`s Gabe  Gutierrez is live from Paris, not too far from that location, and part of this  here, Gabe, is, they`re already under a very tension-ridden time period, because  we`re so close to the Paris attacks, which just happened weeks ago.   
GUTIERREZ: Yeah, that`s right, Richard. Well, within the past few minutes we spoke with police here in Paris, they won`t say how many arrests have happened  within the past hour or so, but as you can see, the situation still unfolding  there at the Place de la Republique and we were there just a little earlier this  morning when the demonstrators had laid shoes there on the Place de la  Republique, and it was a silent protest, a peaceful protest. And just a while  after that, we are told that there was a human chain where several thousand  demonstrators participated, but as you mentioned, Richard, France is under a  state of emergency and public demonstrations are banned, for the past few days.    There`s been a lot of debate over the, whether French government had given up  civil liberties for public safety. Of course, the government says it must do  everything it can to protect the public in the wake of the Paris attacks. As you  see there, though, sometime about an hour or so ago tear gas was lobbed and what  appeared to be stun grenades and the situation is still unfolding, even though  as 140 heads of state come here to Paris, the security situation had been  ramping up for several days, major highways had been closed and we`re waiting to  see how this all unfolds, Richard.   
LUI: Gabe, very different than the past couple of weeks, because we did not see this sort of conflict between those who were out in the streets and law  enforcement. It was much more, if you will, understanding of the situation, and  now we see this conflict. In addition to that, you have all of these signs and  what are you seeing on the signs of the demonstrators? What does it reflect?   
GUTIERREZ: Well, you have to keep in mind that this was a major rally that was supposed to happen ahead of this climate conference, a massive climate  conference, the largest diplomatic gathering in France since 1948, and  organizers had hoped that hundreds of thousands of demonstrators would be able  to take part in this rally here on Sunday. In fact, there have been many rallies  throughout the world and major cities like London and even Brussels, so far  today, and as well as in the U.S.    So, I think many of the climate change activists had wanted this to be a major  day to have their voices heard. Some of them are frustrated that the state of  emergency has prevented these public demonstrations. And in fact, over the last  week or so we`ve heard that from the lawyers of several of the people that have  been placed under house arrest that some of them claim to be climate change  activists and they say they have no ties whatsoever to radical Islamists, and  yet they have been put under house arrest. That`s what the lawyer of several of  those have alleged, the government again says that they are merely trying to  protect the public during what is obviously, a very difficult time.    So, again the police have not said how many arrests have - they`ve made over the  past hour or so, past two hours or so, but 120,000 troops and police officers  have been deployed across France since the beginning of November. This climate  change conference was already set to be a massive security situation even before  those Paris attacks just over two weeks ago, Richard.   
LUI: OK, thank you so much, NBC`s Gabe Gutierrez live for us there in France.   And as we look at the protests that are happening all throughout the city there,  I appreciate that. Of course, we`ll be watching that throughout the rest of this  hour.    We`re going to turn now back to politics in the United States. Donald Trump this  morning continues to play defense on his unsubstantiated claim he saw thousands  of Muslims in New Jersey cheering the September 11th attacks. All this coming as  Republicans struggle with Muslim American voters whose support for the GOP has  dwindled since George W. Bush left office with some of the Republican candidates  becoming increasingly hostile to the United States Muslim population.    Question is, are they cutting themselves off from what would have been a  potentially powerful base? We are now joined by Suhail Khan, a former Bush  administration official and a senior fellow with the Institute for Global  Engagement. We also have Saba Ahmed, president of the Republican Muslim  Coalition. Thank you both so much for being here. I was mentioning George W.  Bush, Suhail. With the comments like we`ve been hearing, would the some almost 3  million Muslim Americans that live in this country, why should they support a  Republican candidate, why should they vote for one?   
SUHAIL KHAN, SR. FELLOW, INST. FOR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT: Well, as you pointed out, Richard, there are millions of Muslim Americans across the country who like our  other friends and neighbors, support limited government, individual freedom,  strong defense and just growth in opportunity. That`s why I`ve been a lifelong  conservative. Unfortunately some of the comments from folks like Mr. Trump and  Dr. Carson really fly in the face of that inclusive message that the GOP has had  for generations going back to Lincoln and Ronald Reagan.   
LUI: Saba, you told "The Daily Beast" that the GOP has created a hostile environment, that`s what you said, for Muslims. If they were to want to turn it  around, what should candidates do and say to cultivate that important Muslim  American vote?   
SABA AHMED, PRES., REPUBLICAN MUSLIM COALITION: I think GOP candidates should reach out to their Muslim American constituents in key electoral states, reach  out to all the mosques. We have 2,200 plus mosques in the United States. We all  need to be represented, just like churches, synagogues, other places of worship,  just like any other faith community, there is a strong voter base for  conservatives, and I think Donald Trump, Ben Carson, all the leading Republican  presidential candidates ought to reach out to their constituents, Muslim  constituents.   
LUI: Suhail, as I was mentioning, the support during the George W. Bush election, 78 percent of Muslim Americans according to what we hear voted for  Bush.    What`s changed since then?   
KHAN: Well, then Governor Bush was just so inclusive in his message. He was the first candidate to visit a mosque in Michigan in 1999, and then you remember  after the horrific attacks of 9/11, he was very careful to visit a mosque again,  to stand for all Americans, the liberties of all Americans, including Muslim  Americans, and that is why you saw Muslim Americans rallying around our  president.    Unfortunately some candidates, in this time of fear and of concern for the  attacks on our country that we have seen in recent years, including our allies  in Paris and other places, now are trying to divide us based on religion and  ethnicity, and I think that is just the wrong path. It`s not conservative. It`s  not American, and I`m confident as we get closer to the elections in Iowa and  then New Hampshire, South Carolina, that a candidate will emerge that will be  inclusive, that will want to include all Americans, regardless of their race or  religious background, and we`ll really move towards one America.   
LUI: It`s been estimated here, Saba, there was a self-identified Muslim who organized fund-raisers for former speaker of the House, John Boehner, who said  some tens of thousands of Muslim Americans would vote for a GOP presidential  candidate. Is that what you think as well? Does that sound right, that number?   
AHMED: Yes, of course. I think a lot of Muslim Americans identify with the conservative Republican party platform. We are pro-life, pro- traditional family  values, pro-defense, pro-business, trade. I think a lot of conservative agenda  aligns with the Islamic values. We have held fund- raisers for speaker and for a  lot of other candidates, and we would like to continue doing that and support  the conservative leadership in Congress.   
LUI: And there is also that other layer, right? When we are talking about the Muslim American vote, we`re also talking about in many cases, in most cases the  minority vote, and when Trump and Carson have these controversial statements,  are they forgetting this layer to their remarks when they`re focusing if you  will on Muslims?   
KHAN: That`s right.  
AHMED: Yes of course.  
KHAN: Oh, sorry, go ahead, Saba.  
AHMED: I mean exactly, I think Trump and Carson need to, when I met with them, Carson wanted me to host a fund-raiser for him and his campaign. But I asked him  about his anti-Islamic remarks, and he was very adamant he was advised by Frank  Gaffney and a few other folks who hate Muslims and who have a very anti-Islamic  agenda. So obviously if we`re going to change their perspectives, we need to  invite them to our homes and have a candid conversation and change their  perspectives on Muslim Americans. A lot of them don`t actually know Muslims. He  mentioned he grew up in Detroit and he knew a lot of Muslims, but obviously he  is not on a first-name basis right now on his presidential campaign trail. He  needs to have Muslim advisers advising him so he can win the American Muslim  vote.   
LUI: Saba, talking about responses to the statements originally made, we have this from Donald Trump on "Meet the Press" in answering the question as to why  he said what he said. Let`s listen to that and Suhail, I`ll get your response.       
TRUMP: I saw it on television. So did many other people.  
TODD: In Jersey City, you saw Jersey City --  
TRUMP: In the area. I also heard Patterson, excuse me. I heard Jersey City, I heard Patterson. It was 14 years ago, but I saw it on television, I saw clips,  and so did many other people and many people saw it in person. I`ve had hundreds  of phone calls to the Trump Organization saying we saw it. It was dancing in the  streets.   
TODD: This didn`t happen in New Jersey. There are plenty of reports.      
TRUMP: It did happen in New Jersey. I have hundreds of people that agree with me and by the way --       
TODD: It doesn`t make it true.  
TRUMP: Chuck, you have a huge Muslim population over there, and that`s fine. That`s fine.       
LUI: So Suhail, there is candidate Donald Trump, defending his comments about Muslim Americans cheering after 9/11. That just happening on "Meet the Press. "  What`s your thought?   
KHAN : Mr. Trump unfortunately is repeating myths that are out there on the Internet just like the Loch Ness monster and Bigfoot. This did not happen. On  the contrary, there were many Muslim Americans who died in the towers, there  were many Muslim American first responders who gave their lives trying to rescue  their fellow Americans. That`s the reality of 9/11. And American Muslims are  just as loyal and patriotic as their friends and neighbors. And for Donald Trump  to continue to double and triple down on this myth that again just divides us is  really something that again stands not for what conservatives stand for and what  America stands for.   
LUI: Suhail Khan, Saba Ahmed, thank you both for spending your Sunday morning with us here on MSNBC and for your perspective. We really do appreciate it.   
AHMED: Sure, thank you for having us.  
LUI: Up next the stunning revelation about one NFL legend and what it means for one of the league`s biggest problems.   
LUI: On Wednesday, Frank Gifford`s family announced that the sportscaster and Giants hall of famer who died in August of natural causes had suffered from a  concussion related brain disease called CTE. His family said they decided to  have his brain studied after his death quote, "in hopes of contributing to the  advancement of medical research concerning the link between football and  traumatic brain injury." Gifford`s diagnosis comes at a time when there is  growing concern about the risk athletes face in many different sports from  repeated concussions. We`re joined now by Harry Carson, a hall of fame  linebacker for the New York Giants, who believes he suffered more than a dozen  concussions during his career and is still suffering the effects of them today.  Harry, thanks for joining us, and how are you doing based on that very early  diagnosis?   
HARRY CARSON, FORMER NFL PLAYER: Well, I was diagnosed in 1990 with post concussion syndrome. I think I`ve learned over the years how to manage it, which  means -- meant for me I knew what my triggers were in terms of bringing on  headaches and so forth. So I`ve lived a very normal life as a result of being  diagnosed so early. That`s 25 years ago.   
LUI: Right. Right. Right.  
CARSON: The problem with players now is they are not diagnosed, and so they don`t really know what they`re dealing with, they don`t know how to manage their  own conditions.   
LUI: Frank Gifford, we started this segment with, you knew him well.  
CARSON: Yeah.  
LUI: What does this mean that this has now been revealed for the rest of the players, the rest of the NFL?   
CARSON: I really don`t think it means anything. Because Frank played during an era in which there were no protocols for concussions. Obviously he was knocked  out by Chuck Bednerickyears ago, and it affected him in some manner, but  he came back to play. And what the Gifford family has done, they have to be  applauded, because they want to help add some kind of word to the dialogue of  concussions right now. I really don`t think it is going to affect the game in  any way, shape or form, because I think the game is just going to move on.  People are going to say, oh, that`s too bad, but that`s what happens in  football. It happened with Junior Seau. Dave Duerson. Those guys committed  suicide, and Frank Gifford has been diagnosed.   
LUI: Harry, we have seen since that the NFL saying we are taking steps and putting in protocols, yet last Sunday, as you are aware, there was a St. Louis  quarterback who appeared to have suffered from some sort of impact, yet he was  not pulled from the field. What`s your thought?   
CARSON: Well, it`s hard when a player sustains a hit and he insists upon staying in the game. Obviously during the heat of competition, you may not necessarily  have all of your faculties about you, but because you`re out there and you`re  playing a game, you have that warrior mentality and you want to play. There was  a player, whether it was Edelmanor whoever, in the Super Bowl against  Seattle and New England. He sustained a concussion. Right on the spot. But he  came back in and he played, he completed the game. When you have a player who is  insistent upon staying in the game, that really is a hard call. The officials,  the coaches, the medical staff really needs to step in and take over at that  point.   
LUI: Harry Carson, thank you so much, NFL hall of famer giving us your perspective.   
CARSON: My pleasure. Sure.  
LUI: And we`ll be right back.  
LUI: As we close the hour, I`d like to thank our panel for being here this morning. It`s been very busy. We continue to watch what`s happening in Paris  throughout the morning here on MSNBC. Melissa Harris-Perry is up next. She`ll  have a preview of the case for the first Baltimore police officers to go on  trial connected to the death of Freddie Gray.    THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE  UPDATED.   
