    
HIGHLIGHT: What qualifies as accountability? Plus, the Secretary of Defense tells Congress we`re at war. And the good news that you may have missed this  week. But first, the latest on the shootings in San Bernardino. The FBI is now  investigating the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California, as an act of  terrorism. "Reuters" is reporting that ISIS said in an online radio broadcast  that followers of the group carried out the attacks in San Bernardino that  killed 14 people. Officials say one of the San Bernardino suspects, Tashfeen  Malik, pledged allegiance to ISIS in a Facebook post in about the same time she  and her husband Syed Farook launched their attack.     
MELISSA HARRIS-PERRY, MSNBC ANCHOR: This morning, my question, what qualifies as accountability? Plus, the Secretary of Defense tells Congress we`re at war. And  the good news that you may have missed this week. But first, the latest on the  shootings in San Bernardino.    Good morning. I`m Melissa Harris-Perry. We want to bring you the latest this  morning on the shooting Wednesday in San Bernardino, California, that left 14  people dead and 21 more wounded. This morning, the Islamic State or ISIS said in  a radio broadcast that two of its followers carried out the attacks, according  to Reuters. Now, the terrorist organization did not claim that it directed the  attack. And U.S. officials say there`s no evidence that they did so.    The attackers, Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik, were killed Wednesday in a  shootout with police, hours after they opened fire during office holiday party.  Yesterday, the FBI assistant director in Los Angeles who is leading the  investigation there announced that the FBI is now investigating the shooting as  an act of terror.       
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI LOS ANGELES: As of today, based on the information and the facts as we know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as an act of  terrorism.       
HARRIS-PERRY: The director of the FBI, James Comey, elaborated on on the possible terror connections in the case.       
JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: The investigation so far has developed indications of radicalization by the killers and of a potential inspiration by foreign  terrorist organizations. So far, we have no indication that these killers are  part of an organized larger group or form part of a cell. There`s no indication  that they are part of a network.       
HARRIS-PERRY: Comey also said the suspects, a married couple, had not been on the FBI`s radar as potential threats before the attack. Law enforcement sources  told NBC News that one of the suspects, Malik, posted an oath of allegiance on  the Islamic State on Facebook just before the shooting.    Joining us now for the very latest is NBC`s Chris Jansing. Chris, where is the  investigation at this point?   
CHRIS JANSING, NBC CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think this is a very hard focus on the electronic evidence. One of the things we heard yesterday, Melissa, from  Director Comey is they have a large volume of it. Cell phones and computers, but  also that the couple tried to destroy them. Two of those cell phones were found  smashed and in a nearby garbage can. And so, they have flown those to Quantico,  Virginia. The FBI has highly sophisticated labs including the operational  technology division that has a number of subunits. And that is their complete  area of expertise. Each of them who are focused on retrieving evidence from  these kinds of situations. It`s not uncommon in any kind of investigation that  someone tries to destroy anything that might be part of a digital footprint.  They also have something called the computer analysis lab. Then there they will  look very specifically at what can they extract. Were there photos on there that  might provide some clues? GPS coordinates obviously could be very important to  where they may have traveled. Does that lead them either to people or places  where they got some of the equipment that we know now was now inside their home  that looked like a virtual bomb factory.    Any kind of records that would give them an indication of how this came  together. All of it leading to the one big question that they just don`t have an  answer to, which is motive. This is a couple that seemed to be leading  essentially a double life. We haven`t found anyone who seems to have any  inclination to suggest that they were in any way unhappy, in any way could have  been radicalized or were doing anything but living the American dream here. And  yesterday, when I talked to the husband`s sister, she clearly was in a state of  shock, talking about a couple who was celebrating the fact that they had a  6-month-old baby, how he would play with that baby for hours at a time. And then  you also have these questions about the disconnect between what they clearly did  in this building behind me and what happened in the days leading up to it. There  was a scare yesterday at a local UPS facility because there was a package  addressed to them. It turned out that there were clothes in it that they had  ordered online. Do you order clothes online if you are planning to commit a  terrorist attack like this? A lot of things that just don`t make sense. One of  the ways that the director put it, a lot of evidence in this case that doesn`t  quite make sense. And so, they really are just in the early stages of this. But  hundreds of investigators literally all around the world, Melissa, who are  looking into this motive and what really happened here.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you, to Chris Jansing in San Bernardino, California.   It took about 48 hours after Wednesday`s shooting for the FBI to declare that it  is investigating the shooting of an act of terrorism. Authorities previously  were unsure, saying the shooting may have been a terror-related or could have  been motivated by something more mundane, namely a workplace dispute. One of the  shooters Syed Farook, had for years worked with the county health department. It  was the department holiday party where Farook and his wife Malik opened fire and  killed 14 people. But as the investigation continued, the FBI increasingly  suspected terrorism.       
BOWDICH: There`s a number of pieces of evidence that has essentially pushed us off the cliff to say we`re now investigating this as an act of terrorism.       
HARRIS-PERRY: Joining me now is Malcolm Nance, executive director of the Terror Assymetrics Project and author of the upcoming back, "Defeating 
 ISIS: Who TheyAre, How They Fight and What They Believe." Malcolm, obviously, we heard from Chris there that there`s confusion here. That there seem to be things that don`t  add up. You`ve been doing this work for a long time. What are you seeing?   
MALCOLM NANCE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, ASSYMETRICS PROJECT: There are many things about this story that don`t add up. Let`s walk it back to the initial attack. If  these people were radicalized, and clearly they were in some way, shape or form,  they had tactical equipment, they had very long high caliber weapons. They had a  bomb laboratory and bomb factory inside their garage. They went to this party,  they carried out this massacre. Which would make you ask initial question, those  of us media, intelligence, community - why wouldn`t they have gone to a bigger  target, a better target? Why would they have such a personally focused target?  So that`s question number one. Question number two is most people who do this  sort of thing, they will carry out an attack and they generally won`t leave a  six-month-old baby behind. We`ve seen it in Nigeria, Boca Haram, they killed  their family before attacks in order to meet them in heaven soon afterwards.  I`ve seen it in Iraq, people actually use their baby as a bomb. But we`ve never  seen one where they just hand the baby off to the mother, say, I`m going out to  the doctor, and then carry out at terrorist attack. So, it`s a hybrid. It`s  almost a combination between a workplace violence incident, which may have  precipitated and stopped a much larger terrorist attack on a more popular or a  more strategic target in the area.   
HARRIS-PERRY: I want to talk about something else in the context of all of this. So, we`ve also heard there from Chris Jansing that hundreds of investigators are  looking at evidence all around the world. You know, the big thing that happened  on air yesterday, though, was that dozens of members of the American media  including some of my colleagues here at MSNBC, went into the home where this  couple was living after apparently the FBI had already been through. Walked  through. There was like a live feed of us watching these things. And I guess I  am wondering in a moment like that for me, both whether or not there`s any sense  that there would be valuable evidence that media would uncover, but also really  importantly to me, I keep hearing this language of radicalization.   
NANCE: Right.  
HARRIS-PERRY: And I found those images very hard to watch. Very distressing and disturbing about who we are. And I`m wondering whether or not those images also  then become troubling images for the rest of the world.   
NANCE: Well, they could actually become troubling images if - it depends on the media team of ISIS who are very, very good at exploiting propaganda. Believe me,  we have not yet seen the ISIS video that will come out in the next few days  where they probably will take claim for this attack and show how their lives of  these people afterwards were ripped apart in a raptor- line fashion by the news  media. I mean you watched them going through the baby crib. You watched them  checking the pampers. Granted, the news media, sort of its own intelligence  collection organization and you wanted to know something that other people  didn`t know. And it generally wasn`t going to be left behind, but perhaps this  could have been handled better.   
HARRIS-PERRY: I want to also ask you about something that the president said. Let`s take a quick lift into what he said about preventing this ideology from  taking hold.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: And even as we work to prevent attacks, all of us, government, law enforcement, communities, faith  leaders, need to work together to prevent people from falling victim to these  hateful ideologies.       
HARRIS-PERRY: What do you make of this language of hateful ideologies? When we`re not quite sure yet what the motivations are?   
NANCE: Well, I think the president speaking in a much grander sense, you know. In terms of he, of course, is the person who is briefed of every aspect of this.  There are intelligence factors here which may not have filtered their way down  at the law enforcement, which may have been briefed to him from a national  security level using national assets. So, things that we may not know about are  happening in Syria, he may have on his desk. The ideology here clearly played  itself out, manifested itself in the way that they carried out the attack.    Also, we see indicators of the ideology in the way that they carved out their  family and abandoned their family. And that`s a core ideological factor. Part of  dogma of al Qaeda and ISIS ideology, which is Hijra, leave your family behind  and emigrate either mentally or physically to the place where jihadists operate.  So I think that the president himself understands that. To do something, you  have to call upon the community to at least give you any indicator, but this  ideology works without indications in many, many circumstances because, of  course, they`re not Islamic, they leave Islam behind. And that`s the painful  part is the Muslim community in the United States and around the world are going  to suffer for that.   
HARRIS-PERRY: That`s a critical point, it feels like to me. Because I think the way that we often talk about in discourse, is as though this is an out-birth of  Islam as opposed to a rejection of Islam.   
NANCE: No, this is a cult. Islam has had five different cults in its history. In 644, you have the Hoaredj, and then in the 11th century you have the  Karamites. And then you have the Madisos Sudan. And then Oteibi who  seized the Grand Mosque in Mecca in 1979. And those survivors went into al  Qaeda. And this ideology is so un-Islamic. It`s anti-Islamic. They consider the  Muslim world their victim base.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Malcolm Nance is going to be back with us later in the program. Up next, the surging business of guns made right here on the USA.   
HARRIS-PERRY: This year, many Americans chose not to do substantial holiday shopping on Thanksgiving weekend. Retail spending dropped 11 percent over the  Thanksgiving weekend. Sales at retail stores on Black Friday were down by $1.2  billion. The two key factors, more people shopping online and more stores  offering their so-called Black Friday deals actually over the course of several  days.    Now, it`s too soon to tell, but maybe this is the beginning of the end of the  tradition of a single day of massive spike in sales to feed our frenzy of  consumerism. Black Friday is just not the day for shopping it once was. Unless  you`re in the market for a gun. If you are shopping for a gun, well, apparently  Black Friday was the day for you. Even as a shooting rampage played out at a  Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood clinic, the "New York Times" reports that  the FBI was busy processing about 2 firearm background checks per second.    All told, "The Times" reports that, quote, "the agency ran a record 185,345  background checks on Friday." About five percent more than the number processed  through the national instant criminal background check system on that same day  in 2014.    Throughout the year, month after month after month has seen a record number of  background checks for gun purchases. According to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco  and Firearms, gun manufacturing is up, way up. A report released earlier this  year, showed gun manufacturing in America started climbing in 2009. The first  year President Obama was in office. And by 2013, had doubled. 10,884,792. That`s  how many guns were made in the United States in 2013. The last year for which we  have data. According to the National Shooting Sports Foundation, companies in  the United States that manufacture, distribute and sell firearms, ammunition and  hunting equipment employ as many as 128,794 people in the country. And generate  an additional 133,850 jobs in supplier and incilary industries. The NSSF puts  the total economic impact of making and selling guns, ammunition and hunting  equipment at 42.9 billion. Billion. With a "b." in 2014. And the gunmakers -  well let`s just look. Smith & Wesson, and it`s more than half a billion dollars  in sales last year. Smith & Wesson`s stock price is up 93 percent this year. And  in its latest conference call, the company said the reason for strong sales is  simple, high demand.    Shooting after shooting. Body after body. The inaction is staggering. And the  polling shows us that America is near evenly split between those who say it`s  more important to control gun ownership versus those who prioritize the  protection of gun rights. And we think that the political divide on the issue or  the power of the NRA and it`s $250 million annual operating budget leads to this  lack of political will among our elected leaders to enact meaningful gun reform.  Maybe. Maybe. Or may just maybe the economic impact of $42.9 billion thanks to  the manufacturing and sale of guns and ammunition in America is playing part in  that politics too.   
HARRIS-PERRY: In the immediate aftermath of the San Bernardino shootings, before we really knew much of anything about the victims or the suspects involved, we  knew we`d hear one sentiment repeatedly. One that we`ve come to expect in the  wake of every national tragedy. An offering of thoughts and prayers for the  victims and their families. Politicians and others took to social media and to  the airwaves to say essentially the same thing, even if the words were  different.    It`s a common reaction in the time of grief and tragedy. But this time, there  was also a sense that thoughts and prayers may not be enough. Headlines like  this one from "The Huffington Post." "Another Mass Shooting. Another Deluge of  Tweeted Prayers." As the suspects` motive was still under investigation, some  lawmakers focused on the suspects` most deadly weapons. Guns. Noting that prayer  in the absence of meaningful gun policy change is insufficient. Senator Chris  Murphy of Connecticut where 20 children were shot and killed in Newtown in 2012,  tweeted this message, "Your thoughts should be about steps to take to stop this  carnage. Your prayers should be for forgiveness if you do nothing again." And  "The New York Daily News" put it even more bluntly with the cover reading, "God  Is Not Fixing This."    As we learn more about the suspects` motives in this shooting, it appears many  are re-examining the role of prayer in our response. Joining me now, the  Reverend Doctor Katharine Rhodes Henderson, President of Auburn Theological  Seminary. And Yolanda Pierce, associate professor of religion and literature at  Princeton Theological Seminary. I want to ask you a little bit, in part because  of the work of Auburn is about our public discourse about religion.   
REV. DR. KATHARINE RHODES HENDERSON, PRESIDENT AUBURN SEMINARY: Right.  
HARRIS-PERRY: So when we tweet prayers, when we say I`m praying for you, what are we saying, what is the content of that?   
RHODES HENDERSON: I think that what we`re saying is, that we`re aligning ourselves, that we are putting ourselves in the space with those who are  suffering and we`re also acknowledging that that`s not just humans who are doing  this, but God is grieved and we believe that God suffers with all of those in  this case, those who have lost family members in these shootings.    So it`s aligning us with the will of God. It`s aligning us with all of those  other people who are grieving and with those who are suffering. I think that the  recent conversation that you`re referring to about prayer is very important,  because I think that what the public was reacting to, was the sense that prayer  alone can be shallow, that it didn`t ring true, and there were some of us after  Charleston, for example, who picked up this hash tag "prophetic grief." Not  pathetic grief ...   
HARRIS-PERRY: Right.  
RHODES HENDERSON: Where you`re not going to do anything and not just empathetic grief, which is compassion, which is very important. But prophetic grief where  you are actually committed to doing something.   
HARRIS-PERRY: So, part of what I find fascinating, about what Anabel what has now been called prayer shaming in response to the kind of prayers offered, is  this idea that they are somehow divided, that there`s either praying or there`s  doing something as opposed to kind of a rich social movement tradition, in which  both things were happening at the same time.   
YOLANDA PIERCE, ASSOC. PROF. PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY: Right. And I think that`s the important piece to like really focus on. People don`t know what to  say when people are hurting and grieving. And so, prayers and thoughts is sort  of what they immediately say. I think the critique is when your prayers and  thoughts are contradictory to your actions, right, so I am praying that there  won`t be any more gun violence, even as I am actually doing something that is  the opposite, promoting more gun violence, right? And so, how do we deal with  the hypocrisy. And then also, I think, people are tired of like saying, well,  we`re waiting on something supernatural to happen. We could end gun violence if  we wanted to. We could end poverty if we wanted to. We as humans have the tools  at our disposal to end these things that grieve us so. And so, many people are  objecting to this notion that, well, what are we waiting for, right? If we`re  only seeing prayers and thoughts when we have the capacity to make a difference  right now.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Let me ask about one other aspect of the politics of this prayer question. So prayer, multiple times a day and often publicly is a pillar of  Islam. It is one of the ways that Islam is kind of an identifiable public  practice, right, is this notion of multiple times a day of prayer. And yet,  somehow this - so maybe I`m reading this wrong. I want to check me if I`m wrong  on this. I keep feeling like when we say, I`m praying, that we think we`re  praying to some kind of God that is anti- Muslim, that is counter-Islamic, and  that we consistently will see Muslims in prayer as somehow dangerous,  threatening, as opposed to prayerful and secret practice.   
RHODES HENDERSON: I think that I mean in my tradition we say pray without ceasing and prayer is always in season, so our prayer actually connects us, I  think to all of those other people, Muslims, Jews, Sikhs and others in the world  who are also praying. And I was in a cab last night and my cab driver was a  Muslim and I was tweeting away and he wanted to really engage me in a  conversation, a conversation about prayer, a conversation about his grief, my  grief. And his love of America, my love of America. And I think that sort of  through our conversation about prayer, we figured out what our shared values  were. And I think that, you know, he was demonstrating that it`s our connections  with each other that are in the end that are love, shall we say, for each other,  in the end, will be the only thing that will save us.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yeah. I`m going to stop you here only because I know you`re going to be back with us. We are going to actually talk more through this. I want to  say thank you to the Reverend Doctor Katharine Henderson, Yolanda Pierce is, in  fact, sticking around. We have so much more on this this morning, on the San  Bernardino shooting, but up next, we`re actually going to go to Chicago. And to  the shooting of Laquan McDonald. And what we mean when we say accountability.   
HARRIS-PERRY: The question of accountability has hounded Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel since the video showing the police shooting death of Laquan McDonald  prompted a demand for answers about why it took 13 months and a court order to  force the city of Chicago to release the footage. And bring charges against the  officer who shot McDonald 16 times. When asked about the delay and his decision  up until a week ago not to watch the video despite having previously been aware  of its contents, Mayor Emanuel said this.       
RAHM EMANUEL, MAYOR OF CHICAGO: We have a practice not unique to Chicago that you don`t do anything as it relates to material evidence that would hamper,  hinder, compromise an investigation. I don`t look at material in a criminal  investigation, any of them. And if I had looked at that video, your question  before over the next several months is why do you get to see it and nobody else  does? So, I would see it when everybody else would see it.       
HARRIS-PERRY: The mayor gave that response to his critics in a Tuesday press conference where he announced that he requested the resignation of Chicago  police super-intendant Gary McCarthy. Now, McCarthy`s removal was a partial  victory for activists who have demanded the resignation of McCarthy, Mayor  Emanuel and Cook County State Attorney Anita Alvarez. And it was also a partial  response to the call for accountability. Not just from individuals responsible  for the police, but from the institution that they represent. Mayor Emanuel  addressed some of those concerns with the announcement of a police  accountability taskforce. And the expanded use of body cameras. But as "The  Chicago Tribune" pointed out this week, Emanuel`s narrative comes against a  backdrop of decades worth of Chicago police torture and wrongful conviction  cases, corruption and slap- ineffectual oversight practices in shootings and  other excessive force actions by officers.    Time and again, the police department has quickly cleared officers of  allegations only to have civil litigation later reveal video and other evidence  that painted a much darker picture of police misconduct.    It is an indictment that implicates not only individual policies and people, but  the entire culture of policing in Chicago. And given the last year in which  Chicago, Ferguson, Baltimore and so many other cities have stood as a testament  to the consequences of what kind of culture and what kind of meaningful  accountability can there be in these circumstances.    Joining me now is Russell Brandom, who is reporter for "The Verge", Yolanda  Pierce, associate professor of African American religion and literature at  Princeton Theological Seminary, Dorian Warren, MSNBC contributor, and host of  "Nerding Out" on MSNBC shift. And from Chicago is Eugene O`Donnell, professor of  law and police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and a former  officer with the NYPD.    I want to start with you, Eugene. Just to ask the very simple question of  whether or not it makes a difference in a department who the police chief is or  whether or not the chief is kind of far enough away that they don`t actually  impact the culture of what happens on the ground.   
EUGENE O`DONNELL, PROF., JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE: Well, these are political failures. All this. Always, these are political failures. That`s where  the start is. And political people like to point out, down and around, but don`t  want to be held accountable themselves almost invariably. It looks, the more you  look in Chicago, the more it looks like they need a nap commission like you had  in New York in the early 1970s. They had systemic corruption. They assumed that  80 percent of the people wanted to be good, 10 percent of the people were good  and 10 percent of the people were bad and you had to actually liberate the  agency for the good people. You had to rearrange the whole organization. And it  was muscular. It was - and it may have to be for the whole criminal justice  system. It has to be people that are credible and are strong and are willing to  go where they have to go.    And where it`s - and ultimately, because what we`re talking about is ending  wrongdoing. We need to do that of course, we also in Chicago urgently have to  create right doing. A culture of right doing in their police department. So,  they need to really be aggressive. A federal overseer is a piece, but it`s only  a tiny piece. There needs to be a radical reform.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Stick with me, because Dorian, I want to ask you the question of whether or not it is even conceivable to have radical reform while the same  mayor is in.   
DORIAN WARREN, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: No. And the mayor has to go. The state attorney has to go, Anita Alvarez, and frankly, I think we need to start asking  some questions about the city council which voted on the $5 million settlement  to the McDonald family.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Apparently without seeing the video.  
WARREN: Apparently without seeing the video. Maybe some did, maybe some didn`t. Maybe some actually read through it. Maybe some didn`t. That goes to the  incompetence of the entire city council and particularly the black caucus. I  need to be very clear about this. We need to ask questions of all of those  political leaders in that city, from the mayor on down. They all need to go. And  we need some viable reformers. There is a question, we were talking before.   
HARRIS-PERRY: So who`s ...  
WARREN: Right, and who?  
HARRIS-PERRY: Is it - does Garcia show up and change this.  
WARREN: But the final thing in terms of - in terms of Rahm Emanuel, when you are opposing the inspector general of the city, when you are going to court to fight  against having the inspector general, who is one formal mechanism of  accountability, from seeing public documents, that I s- that`s the level of  corruption at the highest levels. The lack of transparency, the lack of  accountability.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Are those documents public? And so, this is - you know, you have this great piece that have all of us kind of debating this in part because I`m  thinking, all right, that`s the police, that`s people, my tax dollars, whatever  they got, that`s actually my stuff, right, from the perspective of folks who are  living in a city. And so, why in the world would it take 13 months? And then  your piece helps me understand, oh no, but police either says, we bought it out  of the budget, that`s ours.   
RUSSELL BRANDOM, REPORTER, THE VERGE: Yeah, I mean that`s the thing. I think in some sense, you know, it`s public so they can`t get rid of the video. That`s the  part of it that worked. But once it`s in the system, that`s very much under  police control the same way, you know, I think they see something, you know, if  it`s in the evidence locker, something like that, you know, there very - when  they are buying these systems, which - and these are all systems that are bought  and paid for by, you know, that`s coming out of the police budget. They want to  buy a system that will give them control of the video.   
HARRIS-PERRY: And so, in part, and Yolanda, this for me is the challenge, you know, body cameras have been part of what Black Lives Matter, other activists  have been asking for in part because it does feel like once we see the video, as  we did in the McDonald case, it can change our - but on the other hand, I also  wonder, doesn`t this create more surveillance? Like the very fact that police  want them makes me a little nervous this is going to create police  accountability.   
PIERCE: Well, it`s a couple of things. One is that the surveillance is always pointed at the people who are supposed to be the potential criminals, the  potential trespassers. And who`s watching the watchers? And I mean that`s the  question I think people are talking about. So, on one hand, these body cams  which has given us evidence that we otherwise would not have had and has  disrupted the narrative that we got from police officers about these particular  cases that`s so crucial, but it`s pointed outward.    So, people are asking the question, who`s pointing certain cameras inward so  that we can see when the violation is actually happening among law enforcement?  So we see this with the missing minutes, right, the missing footage. If we did  not have other footage that showed us that in fact, a video was, in fact,  missing these minutes, how would we have ever known that? So body cams are not  enough. And I think Black Lives Matter activists and other grassroots groups  have always said that, it`s simply not enough.   
HARRIS-PERRY: And your point about who`s watching is so important. Because the answer is supposed to be the state - the answer is supposed to be that  independent media are meant to be able to have a sense of -- that we are  supposed to in part to be able to hold these organizations accountable. You see  the tribune and saying this in part about Emanuel, but then I wonder about the  ways, in which people wonder if we are even accountable, right, whether or not  we can make those - those right - we`ll talk much more about all of that when we  come back.   
HARRIS-PERRY: So, of Chicago next week may feel familiar with the city expected to allow the release of another dash cam video showing another police officer  shooting and killing of another African-American man. This video like the  footage of the Laquan McDonald shooting is also more than a year old. And the  family of 25-year-old Ronald Johnson III has been fighting for the release of  the video since he was shot and killed on October 12, 2014, just eight days  before the Laquan McDonald shooting. At the time of the incident, a spokesman  for the fraternal order of police said that Officer George Fernandez shot  Johnson after he turned toward him while holding a gun. But Johnson`s mother,  Dorothy Holmes, says she has watched the video and in a Tuesday press conference  she talked about what she saw and her decision to turn down a settlement offer  that she says was proposed to her by the city.       
DOROTHY HOLMES, MOTHER OF RONALD JOHNSON: He didn`t have a gun in his hand. Because I also seen the video. I looked at the video twice. My main concern is,  my son life didn`t have a price tag. And if whatever money recover can get this  man convicted that murdered my son, then they keep. Because it`s still dirty  money. It is not going to bring him back. It`s not going to make me happy. I  don`t want it.       
HARRIS-PERRY: Miss Holmes was joined at the press conference by her attorney who discussed the family`s motivations for pursuing the release of the video.       
MICHAEL OPPENHEIMER, RONALD JOHNSON FAMILY ATTORNEY: Taxpayers have paid for those dash cams. They have paid for those cars. And what the city has done is  taken that video, taken the important evidence in this case, and denied the  public from seeing it. The public has the right to see it. And that`s one of the  reasons we`re here.       
HARRIS-PERRY: OK, so I got so many different things on this. Let me just real quick come to you, Dorian, on what we were talking about before, which is what  can sometimes feel like an unholy alliance between media and these reportings.  So the police say, such and such and such and such and such, and then media, we  report on it. The police said such and such and such. And here`s a mother who`s  incredibly compelling saying, no, I saw it and that`s not what I saw. We often  take kind of what of the police report is as though it just is what happened.   
WARREN: Never again, at least in the city of Chicago, and probably most other cities. We can add Minneapolis, Baltimore. Let`s keep adding to the list. No  longer can we take a police report for granted as the truth. Because let`s be  very clear. They lied on the police reports. And but for independent  journalists, not even from "The Tribune" or "Sun Times," let`s be clear about  that too, independent journalists who probably are going to be blacklisted for  this, but for them doing the flier request to get access to the autopsy report  and the video cam from the dashboard, we wouldn`t have known that the police  lied and everybody all the way up to Rahm Emanuel knew about this.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Right. And so, here we are again. This young man shot eight days before Laquan McDonald. Again, you know, all of these months passed. We still  don`t have the video. Will video save us? I mean we were talking in the break,  the Burger King was the hero of the Laquan McDonald case. Is video enough to  bring about accountability and justice?   
BRANDOM: I mean I think we have seen video, it just hasn`t been police video. Right? It`s been - standard video. That`s what we saw with Walter Scott. What we  saw with Eric Garner. And that`s why I mean I think, you know, if you want to  hold police accountable with video, the answer isn`t, you know, lobbying for  buying body cameras, it`s protecting the rights of citizens to film the police.  Because that`s - you know, then we don`t have to have this year long legal case.  We don`t have to be playing political football over who deserves ...   
HARRIS-PERRY: Right, because if it`s on my cell phone.  
BRANDOM: Yeah, it`s my video, we`re releasing it, that`s it.  
PIERCE: So, what makes me frustrated about this, is the way in which we position grieving hurting people as the people who are responsible for bringing justice.  I was watching the clip of Ronald Johnson`s mother. And I`m near tears.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.  
PIERCE: She has to take on the responsibility of making sure that justice can be done. And that`s what`s unfair. That`s what should challenge us. We were talking  earlier about prayer, right, that`s where we have to say it`s enough. It should  not be the responsibility of a mother who has just lost her child to have to  pursue this to the ends of the earth, whether it`s through the body cam or  whether it`s through bystander video. Where is justice for her and why is it on  her grieving body?   
HARRIS-PERRY: I thought about this so often when all of us, of course, fell for the vice president when he talked about the grief that he had and how difficult  it was to think about running for office. And while feeling that, I also have  thought about all of the mothers who have lost children and yet immediately  found themselves, not public people before that, suddenly basically having to  run political campaigns in order to just get justice for their kid. Eugene, let  me come to you on this as well, because you talked about not only stopping  wrongdoing, but beginning right doing. And it feels to me like part of what  Yolanda was saying there is, it ought to be police officers who are most  interested in the question of justice, who are most interested in being sure  that when they are policing that when they are engaging that they are, in fact,  protecting and serving. So, why isn`t it the police who are saying let`s find  these videos and let`s look at them and let`s investigate?   
O`DONNELL: Which is so important. As the conversation that gets polarized. People are most interested in hearing about right now, again, I want to hear  what the cops have to say, the good cops who are out there, for the right  reasons, what they feel their job is about, what it looks like and the  community, what the community wants. And I think there will be surprises in that  conversation. But no question, this whole -- the issue with these body cameras,  ultimately political people love these body cameras. Police chiefs even love  these body cameras. It takes systemic failures and shortcomings and problems and  it pushes them down on the lowest possible level.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.  
O`DONNELL: In this Laquan case. None of the cops there had a taser. Now, I`m not a big fan of tasers, but I`m a big fan of saving life. How is it that nobody had  a taser there?   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.  
O`DONNELL: There is very large questions that need to be raised. In a gotcha culture, not only is bad in terms of ultimately we`re just trying to penalize  the police. You`re losing lives.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.  
O`DONNELL: You have two dead people. It`s too late now. We need to be doing systemic proactive reforming.   
HARRIS-PERRY: I actually really want to underline that. Because I think that that`s not a small point. That it becomes overwhelmingly easy to look at the  person who is the shooter, right, I mean not that there isn`t responsibility  there. But the ways, in which we have all of these incentives that then create  these bad acts kind of at the lowest level, but often not walking back up the  chain and saying where do these incentives come from, what kind of messages are  people getting and quite honestly, this idea of like good officers, but still  part of a culture who, like where you just don`t speak against your boss, right,  or you don`t speak against the blue coat.   
DONNELL: Well, I mean there should be accountability, but we also have to remember, what you were talking about earlier in the show, seven people are shot  in Chicago every single day on average. If you did a shooting map of this city  and many other cities in America for five or ten years, you can`t see the city.  The city is covered with dots. I believe it`s 5,000. Several. It`s - pardon me,  it`s 10,000, 12,000 shootings in five years. 10,000 shootings since this mayor  took office. How do these kids, how do these children for the most part, young  adults, how are they able to access firearms? How are firearms so readily  available?   
HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to Eugene O`Donnell, in Chicago, you`ve raised deeply important questions for us. The issues of the actions of police and who`s  responsible. We`re going to talk to somebody who was responsible for a police  department, as soon as we come back.       
EMANUEL: I want to have somebody that will meet the needs of both the public safety, help, obviously, in this issue of both changing the culture, putting in  place the building blocks to restore the confidence and trust that we are seeing  - we want to see in the city of Chicago. And have a record of in a police  department of invigorating the type of not only commitment to a - but the type  of commitment I want to see to make the changes necessary. Not only to lead the  department, but to lead the changes in the department to get the results we  want.       
HARRIS-PERRY: It was Mayor Rahm Emanuel on Tuesday, discussing the responsibilities of the next person to hold the position of police  superintendent in Chicago. Joining me now is someone who have had firsthand  experience of doing that job in another big city. Ronal Serpas is the former New  Orleans` police superintendent and now criminal justice professor at Loyola  University.    I want to point out that you and the recently fired police chief of Chicago  share the unique experience of having been chiefs, going to a troubled city,  leading the force and then resigning after a controversial public shooting.    And so, I`m wondering, what you can tell our viewers about what that experience  is like.   
RONAL SERPAS: You know, being a chief in the large city, and thank you for having me, Melissa. Being a chief in the large city has a lot of complications.  I think we can all agree there are a lot of issues going around in Chicago and  other cities.    I think police chiefs who are willing to go to another community and take on the  challenges of being an outsider, also bring with them a certain time calendar of  their term of office. Many people are going to resist change, they are going to  resist it heavily. Labor organizations, civil service commissions and rules,  state legislative processes, so when a guy like Gary or myself, or Chuck Ramsey  or Bill Bratton takes on a large city coming in from the outside, we know we are  going to have a lot of resistance, but we are going to be there to make as many  differences as we can when we are there.   
HARRIS-PERRY: So, Chief Serpas, you are talking about the kind of the timeline. You actually resigned as chief of the New Orleans police just four days after it  became clear that an officer-involved shooting of a man during a traffic stop  hadn`t been disclosed to the public. And yet, you are actually now leading - and  one of the leading voices of the 21st century policing reform effort.    Should this public be concerned about that?   
SERPAS: I think what the public recognizes, that we are going to try to get it right every day, that we have many people who work for us, who sometimes get it  right, and sometimes mistakes are made. And when a mistakes is made, you`ve got  to stand upfront really quickly and say, a mistake was made, which is what we  did. What we are leading now, is 130 - 150 law enforcement leaders who are  saying, we know counter intuitive as it may see, we know that we can reduce  arrest and we can reduce incarceration at the same time. And we have plenty of  evidence and stories to show it. We absolutely believe that we need to find  alternatives to arrest, deal with mandatory minimum reforms, deal with changing  laws to keep up with current days and continue to build our support in  relationships with the communities and I`m very proud to be working with the  Brandon Center to do this.   
HARRIS-PERRY: So, obviously, there is a great deal of conversation right now in Chicago about the mayor. And the idea that the police chief goes with the mayor  is still there.    And so, I`d like to ask you. I know that you came in initially in New Orleans,  had a positive relationship with Mayor Landrieu, but on your way out, it was  made clear, that you had been asking for more resources, that you`d wanted more  money, more funds for the police and that those hadn`t been forthcoming, even as  requests from the mayor.    And so, can you talk to me a little bit about what it means to be a police chief  and the mayor. Who should be held accountable in these circumstances?   
SERPAS: You know, I was blessed with the opportunity. I worked for a governor, and I worked for three different mayors. Mayor Landrieu was the last elected  leader I worked for. And in every one of those governments, or governments who  actually going broke, believe it or not, at the same time, from 2001 forward,  that was my job, and I took my job very seriously to express what I thought I  needed, just like a football coach went to the owner. I need these players in  these positions in this field. Every police chief is going to make those  requests, and every police chief is going to, you know, argue hard for their  department. Mayors have to make different decisions, and I certainly respected  and understood I was part of a team, and I still think that I was part of a  team, but at the end of the day, I`m convinced that we needed to hire more, and  we needed to hire more frequently, and we needed to maintain educational  achievement requirements for hire. I think that`s what`s going on around the  country. We have to hire all the time to get these officers and fill these  billets.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to Ronal Serpas in New Orleans, and here in New York, thank you to Russell Brandom and Dorian Warren. Yolanda Pierce is going to be  back with us in the next hour. At the top of the hour, we have the latest on the  investigations of the San Bernardino shooting as well as understanding what it  means when our secretary of defense says, that we are a nation at war.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Good morning. I`m Melissa Harris-Perry.   And we begin this hour with the latest details on the mass shooting in San  Bernardino, California, which the FBI is now investigating as an act of  terrorism.    "Reuters" is reporting that ISIS said in an online radio broadcast that  followers of the group carried out the attacks that killed 14 people.    The FBI says there`s no evidence that the attack was directed by ISIS. But  officials say one of the suspects, Tashfeen Malik, pledged allegiance to ISIS in  a Facebook post in about the same time she and her husband Syed Farook launched  their attack.    In his weekly address released this morning, President Obama had this to say  about the investigation.       
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It`s important to let the investigators do their jobs. We need to know all the facts. At my direction,  federal law enforcement is helping in every way that they can. We`re going to  get to the bottom of this. It is entirely possible that these two attackers were  radicalized to commit this attack of terror. It would underscore a threat we`ve  been focused on for years, the danger of people succumbing to violent extremist  ideologies.       
HARRIS-PERRY: Joining us now for the very latest from San Bernardino, California, is NBC`s Chris Jansing.    Chris, what kind of evidence are investigators focusing on right now?   
JANSING: Well, one of the key questions, Melissa, was, where did this come from? Was this a lone wolf kind of attack? Were they self-radicalized or were they in  touch with other people?    We said this morning, again, that there was some confirmation that right before  this attack took place or almost simultaneously, the wife of this couple posted  online that there was -- that she was connected -- not connected to but she  pledged allegiance to ISIS.    Well, now our partners at Flashpoint are saying to us, ISIS is clearly saying we  did not direct this attack -- very important distinction between directing an  attack and inspiring an attack. They seem to be trying to send the message that  this was, indeed, a self-radicalization situation.    Much of the evidence that the FBI is looking at right now has to do with  electronics. They have a large volume of it, but also the couple tried to  destroy it. We heard from FBI Director Comey yesterday about how critical this  evidence is. Much of it has already been flown back to Quantico where the FBI  has a number of labs, sub units, that do nothing but look at this kind of  electronic evidence.    Two cell phones in particular that were smashed and thrown into the garbage  cannot far from their home. They`ll try to retrieve whatever information they  can get off of those. At least one computer hard drive that was taken from their  home.    What are they looking for? Well, among other things, they`ll be looking at what  kind of records there might be. Where did they get, for example, much of this  bomb making material? They had a virtual bomb making factory inside that  suburban home. Photos, is there anything that can tell them about location? In  particular, with the cell phones, the GPS, where did they travel to? Would that  give them indication of where they bought some of this stuff or who they might  have met?    And then as Director Comey said yesterday, there`s a lot of evidence that just  doesn`t make sense and much of that is personal, the 6-month-old child. The  family that seemed to be living the American dream. Why would you just walk away  from all that?    Yesterday, there was a scare at a local UPS facility and it turned out this  package addressed to them was just some clothes they had ordered online. Why  would you order clothes online if you knew you were going to mount an attack?    So, a lot of evidence that they are looking at but so far the key question that  is hanging out there is what was their motive? And that answer is elusive right  now -- Melissa.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to NBC`s Chris Jansing in San Bernardino, California.   The San Bernardino shootings came less than a week after a gunman opened fire at  a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado killing three people. And according to  the database, shootingtracker.com, it was at least the 353rd mass shooting of  the year. With mass shootings defined in this case as those with four or more  people killed or injured. By that scale, that`s more than one a day in the  United States.    But other databases using other criteria cite much lower numbers. According to  "Mother Jones", San Bernardino shooting was the fourth mass shooting of the  year. And despite these recent premeditated attacks, the overall number of  Americans killed by gun violence is actually on the decrease. According to  analysis from the Pew Research Center, the rate of homicides by firearms was cut  in half between 1993 and 2013.    But the impact of these incidents is not just about the numbers. It`s also about  perception. With each report about mass shooting, Americans are pushed into a  cycle of fear and grief and mounting anger and frustration over our inability to  make them stop.    And now, add to the mix the specter of terrorism and you can understand why the  American psyche may in fact be under duress.    Joining me now are Malcolm Nance, executive director of the Terror Assymetrics  Project, Linda Sarsour, executive director of the Arab-American Association of  New York, MSNBC military analyst Jack Jacobs, and Yolanda Pierce, associate  director of Princeton Theological Seminary.    And joining me now from Miami, Dr. Jonathan Metzl, director of the Center for  Medicine, Health and Society at Vanderbilt University, and research director of  the Safe Tennessee Project, which focuses on gun violence as a public health  issue.    I just want to ask you this question, how is it that fear affects, Jonathan, our  individual psyche and decision-making? And is there kind of a collective aspect  to that as well?    JONATHAN METZL, DIR., CTR. FOR MEDICINE, HEALTH & SOCIETY, VANDERBILT 
UNIVERSITY: Well, I think it`s a great question. It`s a question many people are asking at the present moment. I think that partially, it`s because in the  aftermath of acts of terror, there is something incredibly unpredictable in a  way. We can`t predict mass shootings. And very often, we hear these shootings  of, you know, this person was living the American dream as the reporter before  said.    So, there`s this sense that we can`t keep our family safe, that how can we  predict this if we`re not safe at movie theaters, in churches, in places of work  and holiday parties? I think it`s those moments, though, it`s important to  remember that even though it`s very hard to predict mass shootings in advance,  that we`re here in part because of decisions we`ve made as a society.    And so, we`re not just anxious and less safe because of mass shootings, we`re  also less safe because the bigger lessons of mass shootings are that it`s far  easier to amass a personal arsenal and that`s legal in many ways as we`ve seen.    So, we`ve made societal decisions that made it much easier for people to get  guns, to amass ammunition, to do all these factors. And the other thing is we`ve  also increased, you know, weapons in seemingly safe spaces like parks and  churches and bars.    So in a way, the way we think we can address our society even after we ask these  hard questions is to also step back and say what are the policy decisions we can  make, what do we do to get here and how can we step back and really reverse some  of those policy decisions.   
HARRIS-PERRY: It also, you know, it`s interesting to me, in part, you know, living in a time where there are many different ways in which gun violence  enters into our lives. And yet the language of terrorism in particular, or mass  shootings of strangers in public places, let me think of it that way, leads to a  kind of frenzy and a set of incentives that I think actually creates all kinds  of poor chooses.    I mean, I think we saw this in some of the policy making we made in a post- 9/11  world. I honestly think we saw that in part in some of the decision making by  the media yesterday. A kind of frenzy that led us to not do, to not make choices  we would have otherwise made.   
METZL: Well, I think it`s a mistake because I think part of the issue that happens in the aftermath, and we even heard it in some of the statements before,  is this shooting was driven by ideology. Therefore, it must be driven by  terrorism, unlike other mass shootings. But I think it`s also important to  remember that many mass shootings are driven by ideology. That distinction is a  very weak one in a way.    Look at the Charleston shooting, for example. I mean, how could you possibly  think that wasn`t driven by some kind of ideology.    And so, in that sense, I think there`s a bigger question about our society and  really I think we`re starting to ask that now. I think this is an important  conversation we`re having, which is what are the frames we put around these  issues and how are they linked to broader societal stigmatization and biases in  a way that helps us in a way address some of these issues.   
HARRIS-PERRY: So, what, Malcolm --  
NANCE: Yes.  
HARRIS-PERRY: -- what are the frames that make sense? Because what I don`t want to do is say, we shouldn`t use a terrorism frame because that leads us to not  being able to identify things that are meaningfully different than, for example,  interpersonal violence that might lead to gun violence. On the other hand, I am  really worried about what we call terrorism and what we don`t.   
NANCE: Well, terrorism is clearly defined. You know, it`s an act of violence or political violence or threat thereof which impacts an audience outside of the  immediate victims. And we won`t know until the FBI starts doing much deeper  forensic analyst. You know, the personal motivation of the shooters themselves.  We have an indicator that someone may have pledged their loyalty to ISIS. Well,  then that would take it outside of the frame of what workplace violence and  outside of the frame of regular violence and would bring it clearly into the  definition of terrorism.   
HARRIS-PERRY: But as clear as that definition is, when you say it, it sounds like, yes, of course, that makes perfect sense to me. We are the resistance to  using terrorism, for example, to talk about Charleston or to talk about even the  Planned Parenthood shooting, versus the willingness, Linda, to talk about it in  context when, in fact, shooters are also people who are Muslims.   
LINDA SARSOUR, EXEC. DIR., ARAB AMERICAN ASSOC. OF NEW YORK: I mean, it`s deja vu for me every time that perpetrators end up being Muslim. We went from  immediately knowing from eyewitnesses that they were three white males, which,  by the way, multiple witnesses, three medium built, white males, and let`s not  even go there. And then you were talking about gun control and Think Progress  went all over the Republican candidates about thoughts and prayers, not fixing  the laws.    And then, all of a sudden, find out they`re Muslim -- bam, gun violence is out  of the question. We start talking about terrorism. And I`m extremely disturbed.  I mean, I look at "The New York Times" cover today, here you have a whole op-ed  on gun control, great. Right next to it is pictures from the apartment of things  that I have in my house.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.  
SARSOUR: Like these are things that all Muslims had in their house. There`s nothing about that that tells you a story about what terrorism looks like. So,  you`re telling me when my friends who are not Muslim come into my home and see a  Koran or see frames on the wall with a scripture from my religion, is that  supposed to tell you something? I mean, it`s absolutely outrageous.    We would never do that to anyone. We didn`t do that to Dear. We didn`t do that  to Roof. I`m tired of the double standards of how we treat Muslims if they are  the perpetrators.   
HARRIS-PERRY: That image and then also right next to it is image of the shooter, the suspect, in the hijab. The idea that, like, OK, this is what terrorism looks  like. For me, that is a difference. It is a material and meaningful difference  in how we -- so, on the one hand, I want to be able to talk about what the thing  is that is terrorism. On the other hand, I have to reflect that this happened  only for a specific community.   
PIERCE: Some people are terrorists and some people are not. Some people get branded terrorist very quickly and some people do not. Some people get searched  with extra scrutiny at the airport and some people do not. I think we have to  talk about the inconsistency. I think we have to talk about the double  standards.    I also think we have to talk about our cultural amnesia, which is that we have a  frenzy after something happens, and then it goes away and we forget. Then it  happens again and we have the frenzy again.    What does it mean to have a sustained conversation in our country about gun  violence, or about terrorism, or about the acts of disparity when it comes to  particular racists and cultures who are under particular kind of scrutiny and  not simply wait for the frenzy to happen but to have something sustained so we  can actually make some changes, so it`s actually unacceptable to frame people of  one religious group, as somehow inherently more terroristic than people of other  religious groups.   
HARRIS-PERRY: When we come back, the FBI director talks about this issue and how are we to react in the face of terror.       
JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: We know this is very unsettling for the people of the United States. What we hope you will do is not let fear become disabling but to  instead try to channel it into an awareness of your surroundings, to get you to  a place where you are living your life but if you see something that doesn`t  make sense, you say something to somebody.       
HARRIS-PERRY: That was FBI Director James Comey on Friday commenting on the terror investigation in the San Bernardino shootings and how the public should  respond. It was interesting for me that he was saying, oh, you shouldn`t get  sort of so worked up and afraid even though this is terrorism, especially  considering what he said about police officers and YouTube earlier in the year.  Let`s take a listen.       
COMEY: YouTube world, our officers reluctant to get out of their cars and do the work that controls violent crimes, our officers answering 911 calls but avoiding  the informal contact that keeps bad guys from standing around especially with  guns. The suggestion, the question that`s been asked of me is, are these kinds  of things challenging police behavior all over the country? I do have a strong  sense that some part of the explanation is the chill wind that is blown through  law enforcement over the last year and that wind is surely changing behavior.       
HARRIS-PERRY: Oh, Colonel Jack, so, I don`t know -- police officers are too afraid of YouTube to do their jobs but the rest of us are not meant to --   
COL. JACK JACOBS, MSNBC MILITARY ANALYST: Yes, I doubt it. I think that was a knee-jerk response to what was at that time something of a frenzy. You know,  we`re in the middle of probably the biggest revolution, distribution of  information since the invention of the printing press, and I think none of us  knows exactly where it`s going to go. And that`s why reactions like the director  had. Immediately in the aftermath of that saying -- well, everybody`s going to  be scared to do their job seemed like a good idea at the time. It seemed like it  was perceptive at the time. But, obviously, in retrospect, it`s not. At least  part of it`s because we don`t know the full reach of information in a way it`s  changing.    But I don`t think -- I mean, I`m not a cop and I don`t know, but I spent a lot  of time in combat and I wouldn`t have acted any different and you have too. I  wouldn`t have acted any different if I had a camera on or I didn`t have a camera  on in the middle of combat. I would go ahead and do my job.   
HARRIS-PERRY: I want to come to you Jonathan, because in a moment like this, you know, there can be an effort to either link the shooters in San Bernardino to a  broader set of cultural religious, you know, community questions by trying to  make this argument about ISIS or one can just say, oh, there`s individuals who  are deranged, crazy. We should think of them as individuals with mental  illnesses.    You know, honestly, I`m not sure which one I find more troubling as a kind of  sort of stereotype. So, talk to me about how we should think about kind of  individual mental state versus these narratives about broader connections.   
METZL: Well, let me just say, first of all, we live in a very scary time. I mean, it does seem like there`s a repetitive death cycle on the news. Shootings  are happening all the time. We live in an era of great uncertainty. And it does  almost feel like, you know, who`s in control, who`s going to keep us safe.    And so, in an that sense, there`s a disseminated sense of anxiety, and it makes  sense, especially given these events, why gun violence and issues like this are  presented as the FBI director was saying, kind of beware, observe external  threats.    But again, I think it`s important to note that if you look at trends in gun  violence in the United States, that you`re far more likely to get shot by a  relative, a neighbor, a sister, you know, a domestic violence kind of thing. We  also have 20,000 gun suicides a year in the United States. You`re in danger of  yourself in a particular way.    So, in a sense, externalizing this threat, which is I think again on one hand  understandable, kind of effaces the real threat of gun violence which is that  gun violence very often happens in social networks. And so, I agree with the  comment before, which is we need to have a sustained -- a sustained conversation  in this country about the broader implications, not just of gun violence but of  the increasing kind of militazationof our society, because I do think  that`s contributing to a sense of anxiety.   
HARRIS-PERRY: You know, we`re talking earlier also, Linda, about surveillance, when we`re talking about policing, but when I also hear the FBI director say, be  aware of your surroundings that if you see something threatening, I have to say,  in this moment, you look threatening, because what we have done on the front  page is to put someone who looks like you on it and I certainly know something  about sort of living in that world where on any living day, Malcolm is what  looks threatening in the world, right?    And so, I wonder about making a piece of advice that what we should do in order  to keep ourselves safe is to look around us and look at who looks suspicious,  when we know that there`s so much implicit bias in that.   
SARSOUR: Absolutely. I mean, right now, I`m watching American Muslims, particularly young American Muslims, who are also shocked and mourning, you  know, loss of life. We mourn loss of life every day. We just came out of Paris  recently. We came out of Beirut. We came out of Kenya and Nigeria and every day,  you know, we`re experiencing these things.    And here are American Muslims telling each other, here are five self- defense,  you know, tactics that you should learn. Woman in hijab, don`t take your hijab  off but maybe you could wear a hat, or maybe you could tie it to the back. Don`t  stand too close on the train platform. Wait until the train gets there and stops  until you get on the train.    I mean, this is the things that we`re telling each other, that we don`t trust  our fellow Americans, that they can look at us as fellow Americans, as fellow  New Yorkers, that we are just as horrified as anybody else on these shootings.  As a matter of fact, one of the women who was shot in San Bernardino was a  Muslim social worker.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.  
SARSOUR: These terrorists when they do this, I don`t care what -- look, terrorists are all kinds of people for me.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.  
SARSOUR: They don`t care who they`re shooting. I mean, we talked about ISIS and we talked about this with you before. The largest group of victims of ISIS are  Muslims. No one wants to talk about that. Here are young people born and raised  in this country who are fearful and don`t feel like they belong in a country  that has Muslim lineage from the days of its founding and it breaks my heart  every day, my children included.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Malcolm, I have more for you on this but they`ll make me take a commercial. But I actually want to ask you, because we know profiling actually  leads to a bunch of bad outcomes in local policing. And so, I`m also wondering  about what it keeps us from doing well when we talk about counterterrorism as  well.    Thank you, Jonathan Metzl in Miami, Florida. Enjoy the nice weather down there.    And up next, we are at war. That is what the United States secretary of defense  told our Congress this week.   
HARRIS-PERRY: This week, the U.S. raised the stakes in its fight against ISIS. Defense Secretary Ash Carter told a House hearing the Pentagon will expand into  the special operations force in Iraq to fight Islamic state militants in Iraq  and Syria.       
ASHTON CARTER, DEFENSE SECRETARY: We`re at war. We`re using the might of the finest fighting force the world has ever known. These special operators will,  over time, be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather intelligence, and  capture ISIL leaders.       
HARRIS-PERRY: The new deployment will build upon the 3,500 troops already in Iraq and is being called, quote, "a specialized expeditionary targeting force".  The raids it will be able to conduct will target Islamic State militants, what  the Pentagon calls, quote, "high value target". Secretary Carter did not say how  many new troops will be sent to Iraq but defense officials told NBC News the new  standing force would comprise of 250 special operation forces that would conduct  ground combat raids against is targets in both Iraq and Syria.    This change in strategy marks a deepening involvement for the U.S. military and  at a time when some critics are pushing President Obama to go further,  Republican Senator McCain who is the chairman of the Senate Armed Services  Committee said in a written statement Secretary Carter`s announcement is quote a  belated step forward.    So, Jack, I don`t know quite what to do with the war language because --   
JACOBS: Ignore it, I think --  
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes, it feels odd when we think about what this particular engagement is. War always sounds like we`re fighting a nation state which is not  what`s happening here.   
JACOBS: Well, it also sounds like it`s putting people in uniform and having them go out there and fight the bad guys to kill or capture them as we do in the  infantry and then hold on to the terrain as long as necessary in order to  reinstitute the government and all the rest of that stuff. But that`s not what  we`re doing at all.    There are two things about that, all that. The first is we`re focusing on  equipment that is bombs rather than people. That usually doesn`t work. Unless  you`re going to use strategic weapons, which are nuclear weapons which we`re not  going to use. Tactical weapons don`t work. Even over a long period of time.    We firebombed Dresden. We firebombed Tokyo. We firebombed Hamburg. We killed  more people with firebomb in the Second World War than we killed with nuclear  weapons. The Nazis bombed London. None of that, none of the conventional weapons  did anything at all. I`m not arguing to use nuclear weapons because we`re not  going to do it, it doesn`t make any sense.    But the real point is the only purpose for these weapons is to make it easy for  people on the ground to seize and hold the terrain. Now, that`s not going to be  us. That`s going to be people -- it should be people from the region who have a  stake in what really happens here.    But so far, we haven`t been able to motivate them to do that. That requires --  that`s going to require diplomacy and not bombs.   
HARRIS-PERRY: So when you say -- when you make that point about bombs, I feel like that is largely lost on ordinary folks. You know, you go to war, you bomb  some stuff, people are like, please stop bombing, and then they, you know, sort  of give in --   
JACOBS: And then a miracle happens.  
HARRIS-PERRY: But that is not what we`re facing here, right? When you hear the kind of public discourse around this, or even the statements from Ash Carter  there, all we`re doing, the kind of counterterrorism that is necessary.   
NANCE: Well, in the capacity that we have right now, the president`s strategic policy has been to contain ISIS. And the way they`ve been doing that is through,  you know, interdiction of their combat capacity on the ground. That`s bombing  tanks that were seized by the Iraqi army, artillery pieces, things like that,  only in very strategic points. Seventy-five percent of the aircraft that go out  on sorties come back without dropping their ordnance, that`s because what they  don`t have is they don`t have terminal ground attack controllers, people putting  eyes on to the target. And then a force that will move in once they`ve displaced  some sort of military obstacle in the way.    So, you can sit and bomb Raqqa all day. It`s very satisfying, you know, we want  ISIS to understand that we have the capacity to reach them. But as the colonel  said, they`re not going to surrender because of a strategic bombing campaign.  So, this task force is going to be linking up with ground force and doing  unconventional, real special operations. But until we displace and break ISIS`  line of communication.   
JACOBS: Let me throw one further thing out there real quick, one of the objectives is to make it impossible for them to fund anything because we`re  knocking out all their oil revenue. But, you know, attacks like the ones that  took place in California and -- cost like 20 grand --   
HARRIS-PERRY: So, here`s what I find interesting, to connect those, we don`t know yet whether or not ISIS and the California shooters, but there at least  seems to be some sense from the California shooters they have some sympathies  with the question of ISIS.    We are, I presume, going to bomb suburban homes in California. We are not I  presume going to bomb suburban areas in Paris. Is this just a fundamental  misunderstanding of how our kind of bombing action impacts the sentiments of  people who watch what we are doing internationally?   
NANCE: I think we`ve learned a lot since 9/11 to know that, you know, and certainly since the invasion of Iraq, which is a phenomenal mistake, that going  in and conducting these massive ground combat operations just creates  organizations like al Qaeda in Iraq which is now called ISIS. Not one of those  people existed before the day we invaded that country.    So, now, we`re dealing with guys who have carved out their own nation states of  Sunni radicals. You know, the United States needs to understand the only way to  defeat this, and I know, I`ve been a ground combatant in these wars, you can  kill a man, but you can`t kill his ideas.    And we have to go after what I call counter-ideological operations and warfare.  We must expose and destroy the ideological cultism that is anti- Islamic, that  is virulent anti-Islamic in ISIS`s ideology. They have bizarre traits. They say  there`s seven pillars of Islam, not five.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Right.  
NANCE: They are a cult. Until we in the Muslim world engage that to the point where no one will deal with them, we`re going to be dropping bombs.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Up next, the new report on ISIS-related arrests here in the United States.       
OBAMA: We know that ISIL and other terrorist groups are actively encouraging people around the world and in our country to commit terrible acts of violence,  oftentimes as lone wolf actors. And even as we work to prevent attacks, all of  us, government, law enforcement, communities, faith leaders, need to work  together to prevent people from falling victim to these hateful ideologies.       
HARRIS-PERRY: That was President Obama this morning. One day after authorities revealed that Tashfeen Malik, one of the shooters who killed 14 people in San  Bernardino, pledged allegiance to the Islamic State in the Facebook post. The  FBI is investigating the shooting as an act of terror. The agency has not made  any firm conclusions but the case underscores concerns about homegrown terror.    Since 2014, 71 individuals linked to ISIS have been charged in the U.S. for  terrorism-related activities and 56 have been arrested in 2015 alone, which is a  record number of terrorism-related arrests for any year since 9/11. That`s  according to a new study by George Washington University made public this week.  The study ISIS in America reports that those charged -- of those charged, the  average age is 26, 86 percent are male, the vast majority of those arrested are  U.S. citizens, and 27 percent were involved in plots to carry out attacks in  U.S. soil.    The FBI has stated ISIS-related investigations are active in all states but 21  states have at least one arrest within their border. The highest number of cases  in New York followed by Minnesota.    So, I read the report because I feel like that`s what you do, and you find out  that new report has told us new things and I am deeply distressed by the idea  that this would constitute social scientific evidence that we would then make,  for example, policing and counterterrorism decisions on. And you and I were  remarking in the break, Yolanda, that just looking through the images of it and  these kind of Facebook pictures and Twitter posts -- heck, you know, they look  like brothers and cousins and friends and --   
PIERCE: They look like my cousin Tyrone.   So, I think that -- this is what I was going to say before the break, I think we  so desperately want things to be -- this is a bad guy and we`re the good guy. We  want it to be clear cut. We don`t want there to be shades of gray. If we  identify a group of people as the bad guys, then we can bomb them or we can wage  war.    We don`t know what to do with the messiness of all this.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.  
PIERCE: We don`t also know what to do if conventional weapons of, quote/unquote, "warfare" simply do not work.   
HARRIS-PERRY: But I feel like we do know. I think that`s part of it. That this moment, the San Bernardino moment, connects us and makes us think, OK, now we  are personally under attack by this thing that is ISIS. You know, Dylann Roof,  Charleston church, nine people killed. Transwomen killed in 2015, likely as a  result of their identities, 22 of them.    The number of shooting victims in Chicago this year, although not all of them  died, 2,777. The number of Sikhs killed in a temple in Oak Creek in Wisconsin,  six people, and need I point out the police in this country have shot and killed  more than 1,000 people today. And we don`t think we should go to war with any of  those people.   
SARSOUR: I just want to -- Melissa, you know, terrorism or acts of terrorism or even ISIS sympathizers, it`s not an epidemic in the Muslim community. I mean,  the fact we`re sitting here and making it sound like an every day occurrence, we  are 7 million to 10 million Muslims in this country.   
HARRIS-PERRY: But 71 individuals have been arrested.  
SARSOUR: Seventy-one whole individual. And the fact we have, again, distracted from the issue. These two people or three bought legal weapons. Either they  bought them or someone else bought them. They`re buying tactical weapons. No one  thinks that`s the problem here. How did these people?    And then this idea of, like, countering violent extremism in this country  continues to be directed exactly at Muslims as if there`s no other community in  this country that engages in extremism. We`ve seen studies and studies from the  New America Foundation and others that more people have been killed by white  supremacist groups than by quote "jihadists" or whatever they want to call them.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Southern Poverty Law Center is one of the few who are saying terrorist groups in America, what they are mostly talking about is right wing  extremism.   
SARSOUR: But now, it`s terrorism so we just have to go focus and be very narrow focused. There`s no silver bullet profile to any of these. They could be  doctors, they could be Middle America, they could be poor, they could be black,  they could be converts. I mean, there is no special -- like, if this person is  like this, this is how it is.    And if we are really engaging in, quote, "unwarranted surveillance", which I  believe our government is against Muslims, how did you not catch Mr. Syed Farouk  buying tactical weapons and having all this ammunition? If that not raise a  flag, and it`s why we need gun control in this country, why we need background  checks.    But, of course, the Republicans don`t want them. But they will vote for a war  against --   
HARRIS-PERRY: I`ll tell you, it`s not the Republicans don`t want, Democrats don`t want it. This one may be bipartisan in kind of lack of action. That said,  this is something that I was bringing up earlier. When you say, OK, how did we  miss them? One of the things we know is it leads to poor law enforcement. And I  wonder if this is also true even on the international scale.   
NANCE: Well, it is. Let me pitch in on that. I wrote a book 14 years ago called "The Terrorist Recognition Handbook". I was bringing three decades at that time  of intelligence collection experience to law enforcement. And the first thing I  said, that`s known within the intelligence community, those were active  practitioners, we are color neutral. We are race and ethnic neutral,    Terrorists will identify themselves through the manifestation of their  activities, all right, and then once they cross a certain line, you`re a  terrorist. If you act in a political way and you have a political message and  you need to do that impact beyond the immediate victims, you cross and you get  the "T" word branded on to you.    Unfortunately, that hasn`t filtered into the media, and it hasn`t filtered into  law enforcement, you know, at the same level that the U.S. intelligence  community does. So, we need to understand ISIS can be anyone anywhere any time,  who claims that they`re ISIS. And the overwhelming preponderance of people who  were carrying out these acts in the United States and the West are not Muslims,  OK. Military age Muslim is almost a profile to get caught if you`re actually  going to carry out a terrorist act.   
HARRIS-PERRY: I want to pause and when we come back, I want to talk a little bit about things that make us feel like this is different, unusual, hard to  understand, when we talk about the San Bernardino shootings, and there`s one  aspect in particular I want us to dig into.   
HARRIS-PERRY: I want to come back now again, this information we`re learning about the attackers in the San Bernardino shooting. Yesterday, we heard from  lawyers representing members of Syed Farouk`s family.       
MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, ATTORNEY FOR SYED FAROOK`S FAMILY: Would go over to the house, they wouldn`t all be together in the room. The women would sit with the  women and the men would sit with the men. But that is very traditional way of  acting. It wasn`t anything that was different.       
HARRIS-PERRY: So, I think we`re hearing a lot now and a lot of anxiety around particularly the idea, two things, the family piece. So, the idea that one of  the attackers is a woman and that there was a 6-month-old child. And I wanted to  just come back to some of what you said in the first hour, Malcolm, that this  anxiety around -- or this sort of shock around this idea that these are family  folks who, you know, order something on Amazon and then have acted in this way.   
NANCE: OK. Well, let`s take a projection here. Let`s make a leap. Let`s assume based on the evidence that we have right now that they have -- that she has  actually radicalized. She did swear a bayat, she swore a loyalty oath to ISIS  and her husband went along with that.    Obviously, the evidence shows that, bomb factory, lots of weapons. Obviously,  she knew how to handle weapons. She had a run and gun battle with police. So, we  take that into account.    And we have to understand -- now, how is it the family don`t know anything about  that? All right. It`s quite simple. If they have radicalized, they bought into  the concept of hegira, which is this ISIS/al Qaeda/cultist belief harkening back  to the Prophet Muhammad leaving Mecca. They call this immigration where they  leave mentally or physically the land of the infidel.    And you can either stay where you are and do that, right in your backyard or  right in your bomb factory, and your family has to be isolated and cut away from  you.    So, they still could meet with their family and never let them know what`s going  on. And thinking -- well, I`m going to abandon you to this fate. But the child  is a very, very strange thing. I have never in my entire career seen one where a  child was abandoned to go do a suicide mission.    I`ve seen them use children as the bomb. I`ve seen them kill their family. We`ve  seen husband and wife teams go out as dual suicide bombers. But this very  thought they would carry out, adopt this ideology and then abandon their child  into the land of the infidels is quite strange.   
HARRIS-PERRY: So, Malcolm, one of the things I find fascinating in talking to you in this moment, as opposed to some of what we hear, and, Colonel Jack, I  want to come back to the point you made, which is this idea that, you know, we  can bomb everything but as we engage either domestically or internationally --  we`re going to have to have information. We`re going to have to be able to have  conversations across different, we`re going to have to engage diplomacy.    I keep wondering if, in fact, our best tools for generating a different safer  world is one where we actually learn multiple religious traditions, where we  actually learn multiple languages where we actually aren`t sort of -- one of the  ways to push back is to know more. So that we can engage more intelligently as  we see the things in the world.   
JACOBS: Well, our intelligence sorely lacking. We can go back several decades and realize every administration going back a long way has been complicit in  reducing our ability to get timely human intelligence from places we need to get  intelligence and then converting that into finished intelligence on which we can  act. We`re terrible at it. We`re just now playing catch up after decades and  decades of completely eliminating our capability to do so. So, we need to get  better intelligence. We need to do it very, very soon.   
PIERCE: But I would say more than better intelligence, better intelligence, but cultural, religious understanding, interfaith conversation. One of our favorite  poets, Elizabeth Alexander, what if the mightiest word is love, right? What if  the answer is not war and bombs but cultural understanding, religious  understanding, sustained conversation? What if we stopped pretending? The  Muslims are praying, what does it mean?    When almost every faith has prayer rituals, right, what would happen if we  actually did that and that`s our fine line of defense? Our education is our  first line of defense. That`s how we deploy our resources and our money.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Right. So, that`s exactly -- so on the one hand, yes, this question of intelligence. But the idea of actually becoming more intelligent  about the world we live in, because it does seem that part of what`s happening  here is we`re constantly behaving in ways that are based in ignorance and fear.   
SARSOUR: Absolutely. When people look at someone like me, they think I`m an anomaly. This is what Muslim women are. We are educated. We are mothers, but  we`re also workers. We`re the backbones of our communities.    There`s a lot of information and misconceptions. People are OK with that. It`s  acceptable. We allow media pundits. We allow presidential candidates -- I mean,  the stuff that people are saying about Muslims, if they were said about any  other faith, group, we would be up in arms as a country.    Forty percent of terror plots or alleged terror plots have been foiled by  Muslims and information from Muslim communities. The last thing we need in this  country is to push Muslims to margins of society. To then -- to actually then  fuel potential radicalization and anti-American hate, because actually that`s  what is feeds off of.    They`ll tell young Muslims in France, they don`t like you, you don`t belong  there. This is the conditions you are in, is because of the other and  otherizing. And this is what we don`t want. Our tools to combat terrorism is  unity, it`s staying together. It`s looking at me in the street and saying,  that`s my sister, she`s my American sister, I got her back, just like I know  that she got my back. And that`s not the sentiment that we are right now.   
HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to Linda Sarsour, and also thank you to Malcolm Nance, and to Colonel Jack Jacobs, also to Yolanda Pierce.    Up next, after a hard week, we have a little bit of good news, and we`re going  to lighten it up when we come back.   
HARRIS-PERRY: We know that the news of the last few weeks has been especially tough. Every week for nearly a month, violence and brutality has dominated the  headlines, and in Nerdland, if those of you who consume the news is anything  like those of us who report on it, it might be feeling like the most.    So, we thought we would take this space for a reminder off a few things.    One, self-care is also an important part of the work, check in with your  emotional well-being. If you need a break for yourself, take it.    Two, there is actually other news going on rather than everything that has been  breaking everyday. It is not all bad.    So, here, for starters, a political miracle occurred in Washington this week.  Thursday night, Congress reached a -- check it out -- bipartisan agreement on  the $305 billion bill to fix our nation`s crumbling infrastructure. The  five-year bill is the longest period in a decade that Congress has reauthorized  federal transportation programs to fund roads, bridges, and rail lines.    And then there was this, a response that you may not have heard of the Syrian  refugee crisis in Minnesota where refugee agencies have been so flooded with  donations and offers to help that the director of one of the agencies told the  "Minnesota Star Tribune" we have four to five times the number of volunteers  inquiries and interests. It`s a wonderful problem to have.    And in Oklahoma this week, Montrel Adams, a student at a school for deaf  children tackled a problem of his own. He was the target of bullying and he  wanted to teach younger students about nonviolent conflict resolution. So he and  the four people built this, a buddy bench.    The idea is that students sit on the bench when they are sad or lonely, which  signals a classmates to join them on the bench to offer a word of encouragement  or an invitation to play and hang out.    And lastly, just for the sheer joy of it, we leave you with this -- First Lady  Michelle Obama making herself a new buddy at the national Christmas tree  lighting and reading "Twas The Night Before Christmas" to a group of children  with the help of Miss Piggy.       
MICHELLE OBAMA, FIRST LADY: He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle. And away they all flew like the down of a thistle.   
MISS PIGGY: But I heard him exclaim as he flew out of sight "Merry Christmas to all, and to all, a good night."   
OBAMA: High five, Miss Piggy. Low five.      
HARRIS-PERRY: Yep, if you need to feel better, watch the FLOTUS video.   That is our show for today. Thanks to you at home for watching. I`ll see you  tomorrow morning, 10:00 a.m. Eastern.    Right now, it`s time for a preview of "WEEKENDS WITH ALEX WITH".    Hi, Alex.    THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE  UPDATED.   