      
HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump still leads in the Republican presidential candidate polls despite all of his comments about Muslims and mocking a reporter with  disability. Martin Luther King III talked about the 60th anniversary of the  Montgomery bus boycott. Only Jeb Bush. Ted Cruz and John Kasich spoke after the  Colorado shooting and other remain silent about it. Spike Lee talked about his  new film "Chi-Raq."         
REV. AL SHARPTON, MSNBC HOST: The GOP`s freak out over Donald Trump. Just two months to Iowa, can anyone stop him?    Also, the latest on the Planned Parenthood shooting? Was the suspect driven by  politics?    Plus, tough new questions after the police shooting of Laquan McDonald. We will  look at the state of civil rights in America, 60 years after the Montgomery bus  boycott. Martin Luther King III will join me live.    And Spike Lee is back, making headlines with a new film about gun violence in  Chicago. Spike joins me live here at 30 Rock.       
SHARPTON: Good morning.   We start with Donald Trump. And the question now facing Republicans, just over  two months from Iowa, can anyone in the GOP stop him?    This weekend, Trump says he`s rallying a quote "movement," and evoked Richard  Nixon`s famous phrase about a silent majority.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is a movement. This is not Trump. This is not anything. This is a movement. Remember, it is a movement. We used to  say silent majority. It`s not a silent majority, it`s really a noisy majority.       
SHARPTON: Once again Trump finds himself in a controversy, this time for apparently mocking a reporter who has a medical condition.       
TRUMP: Now the poor guy you got to see this guy, I don`t know what I said, I don`t remember. He`s going I don`t remember. Maybe that`s what I said.       
SHARPTON: And once again, Trump is not apologizing. Instead, going on offense, claiming he wasn`t mocking the reporter.       
TRUMP: Because I express myself very strongly it`s groveling, I`m trying to show groveling, but all of a sudden I found that I was mocking somebody. I may have  met him, some of the people back there, they reported me every day. I don`t know  who they are. I don`t know what they look like, but I know their name and they  know what I`m talking about. I know their name and some treat me good and some  treat me badly, mostly badly, you know, because they don`t come from where we  come from. But I know their name but I don`t know. This reporter is so happy.  People have heard of him now. Nobody ever heard of the guy.       
SHARPTON: Trump has now been first or second in polls for over 130 days. Can anyone challenge him?    Ted Cruz is making a move. One poll shows him just two points behind Trump in  Iowa. Chris Christie just got an endorsement from a major newspaper in New  Hampshire, but Trump himself might have his eye on Marco Rubio.       
TRUMP: Rubio comes out. He represents for a short period of time the people of Florida. He has got the worst attendance record in the United States Senate,  doesn`t vote. He is weak on, very weak on illegal immigration, totally in favor  of amnesty, which you can`t do. OK?       
SHARPTON: Joining me now is our panel, MSNBC national correspondent Joy Reid, Reuters political reporter Erin McPike, and "the Nation`s" John Nichols. Thank  you all for being here.   
JOY REID, MSNBC NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Thank you, Rev.  
ERIN MCPIKE, POLITICAL REPORTER, REUTERS: Thanks.  
JOHN NICHOLS, THE NATIONS: Thank you, Reverend.  
SHARPTON: Joy, what is the GOP plan to stop Donald Trump?  
REID: Well, at the moment, Rev., it appears they didn`t have a plan, right. So one of the story that came out last weekend, I think it was about Friday, is  that GOP donors are all sort of looking at each other wondering which one of  them is going to pull a trigger on some sort of plan to take down Trump. Now,  there has been a group that has been formed, a 501C3 I believe it is, that is  going to try to run ads against Trump.    But I don`t understand really what ads are going to do at this point. I think  the base of the Republican Party, at least a third of it, is dead set on Donald  Trump. And I don`t really understand what the GOP establishment thinks it is  going to do to stop him.   
SHARPTON: You know, Erin, because Trump himself talks about his controversial statements don`t hurt him, they only help him. Let me show you this comment and  get a response.       
TRUMP: Sometimes I`ll make a statement they`ll say, this is the end. This is the end! Right? This is the end. It`s finally going to happen. And then my guys walk  into the office, hey, Mr. Trump, our poll numbers have just gone through the  roof. Say what? That`s only happened about four times so far.       
SHARPTON: Now, Erin, despite the fact there`s a lot of braggadociothere, it`s true he seems to have been able to get helped by controversies, not harmed  by them.   
MCPIKE: It`s absolutely true. And part of that is that the Republican base likes him a lot more than they like or trust the media, so I would agree. He is right.  A lot of times his poll numbers go up.    The other thing I would say here is look for his poll numbers to go up again  next week after thanksgiving, after people have gotten together and talked about  it, because the more and more you hear a number of Republican voters get  together and talk about it, they talk about what it is they like about Donald  Trump. I actually think he is going to go up a little bit more from here.   
SHARPTON: John, I mean Joy referred to it, "the Wall Street Journal" has done an article on it, the big donors are looking for a way to come after him. Is there  a route to stopping Trump sort of just wishing, hoping, praying that he  implodes?   
NICHOLS: Well, one thing to understand about Donald Trump is that since he got into this race with credible but not dominant numbers, he has meticulously taken  down everyone who has gotten in his way. And that`s the other side. The flipside  of this thing is that when somebody comes up as his credible challenger, Trump  turns his energy on that candidate. He did it to Bush, he did it to Scott  Walker. I would argue he did it to Marco Rubio and now he will likely do it with  Cruz. And so, that`s a key part of this whole thing. It isn`t just the  establishment is struggling. It`s this reality that when they find somebody  Trump then focuses on that person and takes them down.    I think the key on this thing is two-fold. Trump is likely to be slowed down  only if you can beat him in Iowa and in New Hampshire. The way to do that is  with different candidates, not with one candidate. And so, in Iowa you look at  Cruz coming up.    Cruz is a very skilled campaigner. He has put a lot of energy into Iowa. He is  credible there. Watch what he does. He is, I think, going to take a lot of Ben  Carson`s support. Build on his own. Potentially come into a lead there.    In New Hampshire, it is much harder, but when you see this endorsement of Chris  Christie today, that`s what that`s about. The idea in New Hampshire has to be to  pull together the mainstream Republicans, those who are, you know, very  conservative but maybe deal in something a little bit closer to the mainstream  America politics than Trump. So what you are going to try to see there is an  attempt to downplay Bush, downplay Kasich, move those numbers over at least in  this case perhaps to Christie, and get one credible contender against him in New  Hampshire.   
SHARPTON: But Erin, how do you explain that he has been able to in many ways bring down Rubio. Now he is working on Cruz. Carson has gone way down, a lot of  that self-inflicted. I mean, he has been able to go from show men to strategist  and using a showmanship to support a strategy as John says.   
MCPIKE: Well, that`s right. He has improved as a candidate. I would add that a little bit to say the he has not yet turned his attention to Cruz. We expect  that. Although, he has been quite kind to Cruz throughout this campaign. They  are on the level on a lot of issues.    He is still focus on Rubio. And I think that remains to be seen where that goes  because Marco Rubio is just beginning a major ad buy. And maybe that will move  numbers. Big advertising buys on television have moved numbers in the past. It  remains to be seen whether it can.    Whether this union leader endorsement of Chris Christie last night, this morning  will do anything to move Chris Christie`s numbers, that`s hard to say. That  paper endorsed Newt Gingrich in 2011 and he did not go on to beat Mitt Romney in  the state of New Hampshire. Right now, Chris Christie is polling quite low at  five to seven percent in New Hampshire. It`s Marco Rubio that the establishment  wants to rally around, but who knows that that will make any difference?    Cruz is quite close to Trump in Iowa but in New Hampshire, it may hurt him. And  I have heard a number of voters say that they do not want to go with the  establishment candidate. They like Trump and Cruz because they are  anti-establishment and they keep saying, well, you know, Marco Rubio used to be  an anti-establishment guy but now he is the establishment. So we don`t want him.    But I think everybody in New Hampshire is so far behind Donald Trump. The idea  that getting behind Chris Christie this late in the game, I don`t know that`s  going to do much good.   
SHARPTON: Joy, tomorrow, Donald Trump`s meeting with leading black pastors it`s billed. Some are saying they are just going to meet, some are saying they are  going to endorse.    Now, aside from the fact of my opinion of Donald Trump and others, the thing  that`s interesting here is that he is going for a block that represents a lot,  if not the majority of black voters. Lot of people don`t understand even in a  transforming time, the majority of black voters attend church. It may not be the  traditional church. It may be the mega church. Is he playing on a weakness that  the Democrats have left an opening who havewith progressive, but  have not dealt with the church, where the vote is?   
REID: Yes. And it`s interesting. Because I think you are right in that people do underestimate the extent to which the pastor, the church is still the probably  the most compelling centrifugal force that guides black voters. That that is  where the biggest black voter-base is, particularly when you are talking about  African-American women.    And so, for Donald Trump to have this meeting, there are only the lead pastor  who organized it, is actually endorsing him. The rest are just taking the  meeting. But the fact that they are willing to take the meeting, some of these  pastors who have known to sort of act on this for Democratic sphere, called the  Republican sphere, means that number one, Democrats have left an opening.    I think you have seen with all of the three major, really two major Democratic  candidates, they are now trying to make up ground with black voters because  there is a sense I think broadly among a lot of black voters that don`t quite  take them for granted.   
SHARPTON: Right.  
REID: And so, I think any opening that that lead --  
SHARPTON: Well, I have been saying to the candidates, and I want to reiterate that call. They need to come in front of black religious leaders and I think  Trump has on it because they cannot look like they are just, not only taking it  for granted but only playing to one side of a community that may not represent  voters.    Everybody, stay with me. Lots more to come.       
SHARPTON: We`ll look at the new debate about defining terrorism in the wake of the shooting rampage at a Planned Parenthood clinic.    Also, the Montgomery bus boycott 60 years later. I`ll talk about the lessons for  activism today with Martin Luther King III.    Plus Spike Lee stops by to talk about his new film, "Chi-Raq."    Stay with us.           
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I know that Americans have been asking each other whether it`s safe here, whether it`s safe to fly or gather. We  are taking every possible step to keep our homeland safe.       
SHARPTON: President Obama telling Americans not to panic in the wake of the Paris terror attacks.    On the campaign trail, Donald Trump has a different message.       
TRUMP: We do have to look at the mosques very carefully. The mosques, a lot of things are happening in there, folks, a lot of things.    There`s some nastiness, there`s some meanness there. There`s something going on  in the mosques and other places.    People move into a house a block down the road. You know who`s going in. You can  see and you report them to the local police. Everybody`s their own cop in a way.  You got to do it.    Would I approve waterboarding? You bet your. I would approve it. You bet  your, in a heartbeat.       
SHARPTON: Trump is also indicated he would support a database of Muslims, and that he would be open to shutting down some mosques. Up to now rival GOP  candidates have been careful in criticizing him.    Joining me now is former ambassador to the United Nations, and former governor  of New Mexico, Bill Richardson.    Governor, thank you for being here.   
BILL RICHARDSON, FORMER AMBASSADOR TO UNITED NATIONS: Thank you, Reverend. Nice to be with you.   
SHARPTON: You know, you`ve been in politics a long time. Have you ever seen this kind of rhetoric on the national level?   
RICHARDSON: No, I haven`t seen this rhetoric and I was just in Paris. I got back last night where the French people have rallied around their leaders. They have  rallied as a community for the victims there. And then to hear this rhetoric on  the right, shut down mosque, don`t allow refugees to come in, data registry, the  silence of the right when it comes to this Planned Parenthood attack in  Colorado. It shows that as a country, we need to come together.    And I applaud the president. I think the president was very right to send this  calming message. He has a bully pulpit. I just traveled extensively through  airports, Reverend. And you know, I`m going to say something good about law  enforcement, about the police, even TSA, everything seemed orderly. Travelers  were upbeat. They were cooperating. I think as a country when you leave --   
SHARPTON: But let me ask you this, ambassador, governor, the attitudes that we are hearing here, how are people responding around the world? I mean, I was in  Paris and South Africa right before the attack, and you got one flavor. How are  we looking post-Paris when you are hearing leading candidate on the Republican  side talking about closing mosques, data bank for Muslims. How is that playing  around the world? You have just come back from Paris.   
RICHARDSON: Well, I hear it from diplomats, from friends, from ordinary people, they are saying what is happening to America, the land of civil liberties, of  the free? Where is this rhetoric coming from?    What I try to say to them is that look, this is Donald Trump and others. This is  maybe 30 percent of the Republican electorate. I try to tell them that a  majority of the American people still have these values of decency, of  democracy.    You know, this Planned Parenthood issue, Reverend, I think this attorney general  is a very good one. What she said was this was not just an attack on Planned  Parenthood. This was a man with a history of domestic violence, animal abuse. He  killed law enforcement official.   
SHARPTON: Right.  
RICHARDSON: He killed 11 innocent people. You know, I think that`s the kind of calming positive assessment of where we are.   
SHARPTON: I`m going to get into Colorado later in the show, and you`re right. But let me ask you something. You say that Donald Trump, that maybe 30 percent,  but has his GOP rivals criticized him enough? Have they taken him on? And if  not, why not?   
RICHARDSON: Well, they have been silent. They have been silent on Trump. They were silent on Colorado, on the mosque issue. I think the only ones that have  spoken out like Jeb Bush and others have actually gone down in the polls.    Now, my prediction, I know you had a very distinguished panel earlier, Reverend,  but I think the voters of New Hampshire and Iowa, Iowa is in the primaries, they  have a way of sending messages. This is two months away. I don`t think Trump is  going to win either of those two primaries. I think the accumulation of his  insults, of this rhetoric is eventually going to register at the polls. I think  you are going to see some real upsets. And I think by the middle of the  primaries, I think he will be out as a major candidate. But I have been wrong  before. I have been wrong so far about Trump, but we will see.   
SHARPTON: Well, I have to agree. I was in the 2004 primaries and we thought going in, Howard Dean would win Iowa and it didn`t quite work out that way.    Governor Bill Richardson, thank you for so much being with us this morning.   
RICHARDSON: Thank you.  
ANNOUNCER: We will be right back with Martin Luther King III only on "Politics Nation."   
SHARPTON: This Tuesday, Americans will mark a milestone in U.S. history. The 60th anniversary of the Montgomery bus boycott.    On December 1st, 1955, Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat to a white man on  a bus. It sparked a city-wide boycott led by a young preacher named Martin  Luther King Jr.       
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., ACTIVIST: Felt all along that we have just cause and legal excuse for such action. We simply decided to say en masse that we were  tired of being trampled over with iron feet of oppression.       
SHARPTON: The boycott lasted over a year and ended with the city losing at the Supreme Court and integrating all its buses. The legacy of the boycott endures  to this day. But many challenges remain, some old and some new. And as we see  that horrific tragedy like the shooting of Laquan McDonald in Chicago, 16 shots  and 400 days until the police officer who shot him was charged with murder.    Joining me now is Martin Luther King III. Thanks for being here, Martin.   
MARTIN LUTHER KING III, CIVIL RIGHT ACTIVIST: Thank you, Rev.  
SHARPTON: Martin, you have seen this video of the police shooting in Chicago. And you and I dealt with videos the last several years from North Charleston to  Gardner in New York. I mean, doesn`t this highlight where we are in this next  phase of civil rights, maybe starting with Trayvon, where all of us have been  involved through until now, is this the next phase coming to having to deal with  the criminal justice issue?   
KING: Well certainly the criminal justice issue is one of the top issues that our nation must address, when we look at the number of African- Americans and  Latinos and Hispanics who describes the prison population. And the fact that in  our communities it`s not just policing, I should say. That is certainly a  significant issue.    But also, just as significant is the fact that unfortunately there is community  violence. Dad would have characterized it and mom as we are still addressing the  issues of the eradication of poverty, racism, militarism and violence. And so, I  don`t know that it is a new face as much as we just still have a lot of work to  do. I think we learned from what we saw in 1955, the endurance that people had  for 381 days, people chose not to ride the buses.    I remember mom saying that on that first day, they looked out of the window.  They were very excited. They had no idea whether the buses is going to be empty.  But the resilience that the people had is just phenomenal.   
SHARPTON: Now, how important was that? And I have talked to you about this and was privileged to talk to your mother about this many times, the significance of  this in launching the national career, if you want to call it a career, or  mission of your father?   
KING: Well, it is certainly was quite significant. And as you know, MIA existed at the time or was created --   
SHARPTON: Montgomery Improvement Association. I don`t want people to think you`re talking about missing in action.   
KING: Absolutely. But it also created a climate so that in 1957, the southern Christian leadership conference could be founded which became the organization  that worked with other organizations to help us get a civil rights act in 1964  and the voting rights act in 1965 and fair housing legislation in 1968. So yes,  that was the pivotal point in terms of the leadership. Certainly the starting  point of leadership of Martin Luther King Jr.   
SHARPTON: Now, one of the things that was interesting to me, and I tell this to a lot of young activists in Mass Action Network and another groups and outside  groups, is that the reason the boycott worked is they were inclusive. They  brought in everybody. And they, as you said, your mother talked about how no one  got on the bus, the real movements bring in a broad tent, not an exclusionary  tent. And your father had to go through a lot of tensions to build even people  that were criticized, called them to establishment, call them too radical on the  other side, but an inclusive movement is the only way you can really make the  real change happen.   
KING: You are absolutely right, Rev. And of course, that I think that`s what we see. I think we -- even as it relates to Black Lives Matter, it`s not just black  young people marching. They are blacks, they are whites, there are others who  are marching. And it has to be an inclusive movement, if we want to maximize  success.    We will see -- and dad would have called it I guess coalition building. And mom  engaged in coalition building. So you had -- I mean we always know the union  supported the movement. We know the Jewish community supported the movement. We  know that the Greek orthodox committee came and supported the movement. We know  that Catholics supported the movement, over time. It did not start with each of  those groups initially. But over time all of those groups came to the table. And  America is a better America because women and men and folks from all walks of  life came together.    And that`s what we need today when we talk about the concept of injustice.  Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. Dad used to say I can`t be  what I ought to be until you are what you ought to be because our destinies are  tied together.   
SHARPTON: Martin Luther King III, thank you so much for being here with us this Sunday before this important anniversary.   
KING: Thank you, Rev.  
ANNOUNCER: You are watching "Politics Nation" with Al Sharpton, only on MSNBC.  
SHARPTON: The suspect at the deadly shooting rampage at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado is due in court tomorrow. While investigators are still  trying to confirm a motive, sources say Robert Dear said quote "no more baby  parts." After his arrest, he made those statements. He also made comments about  the government and about President Obama.    Attorney General Loretta Lynch called it quote "a crime against women." And the  justice department is reviewing whether Dear should be charged with a hate crime  or with violating a federal law that protection abortion clinics. The survivors  were stunned.       
OZY LICANO, COLORADO SHOOTING WITNESS: I could see him aiming and I was trying move. It was horrible. I`m angry. You know? I just don`t know what would possess  somebody to be that pad to other people that he didn`t even know.       
SHARPTON: And now it`s a political issue as well. All three democratic presidential candidates have denounced the shooting. But most of the Republicans  have been slow to respond.    Jeb Bush said there was no acceptable explanation for this violence.    Ted Cruz and John Kasich called the shooting quote "tragic."    Let`s bring back our panel, Joy Reid, Erin McPike and John Nichols.    John, what is your take on the response from the Republicans?   
NICHOLS: It has been deafening. Deafening silence. And it is true that Ted Cruz did tweet something and so has John Kasich. And credit to them. But it is  striking to me that in the immediate aftermath of this shooting, this shooting  that took the lives of three people including a police officer, who is a  co-pastor of his church, you did not see Republican contenders who have been so  outspoken, who have always had something to say about Planned Parenthood and  about a host of other issues step up. They did not have to change their  positions. They did not have to, you know, say something that would satisfy, you  know, supporters of abortion rights or reproductive health, but they could have  said this is jarring, this is troubling. This is a good point at which to think  about how we talk about issues, to think about how we frame these debates.    And I will just remind you, Reverend, we have a great history in this country of  candidates being tested in moments like this. You will recall in 1968 just  hours, minutes really shortly after Martin Luther King Jr. was shot, Bobby  Kennedy standing in an inner city speaking those beautiful words. I don`t expect  any candidate to hit that mark. But I do expect that in a moment of national  trauma, candidates would speak up and at least try to heal, try to keep people  talking.   
SHARPTON: You raise an excellent point there, John. Because Joy, I remember all of the furor when a kid brought a homemade clock to school in Texas, and they  thought it was a bomb, and it was huge furor, and it was not a bomb.   
REID: Right.  
SHARPTON: And if you listened to the relative of silence almost especially from the candidates, but on the right in general, on a man that went in a Planned  Parenthood office and kills three people, including a police officer.   
REID: That`s right. And this is the same right wing that has been sort of baiting the African-American community and claiming the demands for justice,  demands for better policing --   
SHARPTON: Rhetoric, blaming everybody from the president to me to young activists, I mean.   
REID: Exactly. And that they are endangering the lives of police officers.   But you know, Republicans conservatives are in a bind here. They are in this  really fractious race for the Republican nomination in which one-third of the  base is heavily evangelical. They are very dependent on evangelical voters who  are listening for any signs ofon the issue of abortion. And so,  they are locked in this kind of situation where they can`t be too sympathetic.    But you know, the thing is, if you were to substitute the shooter, if he were  Muslim or if he were a Mexican national, how different the rhetoric would be on  the right, right now. You really understand where the Republican Party and the  conservative movement is today.   
SHARPTON: But you know, Erin, that brings us to the fight and analysis between domestic terrorism and Islamic terror. For example, the death toll for terror  attacks in the United States since September 11th has 48 people killed  non-Muslim extremism, and jihadist extremism 26 killed. So the non- Muslim  extremism has really caused more death, all are who are horrific, all are wrong,  all must be dealt with, but it doesn`t seem like we`re getting the equal kind of  attention and outrage from elements of the right.   
MCPIKE: That`s right. And look, the Republicans, all of them, were quick to jump on the Paris attacks in the aftermath of that to talk about a number of issues  related to terrorism on an international level. And even Marco Rubio stoking  fear about the fact that it could happen here.    I think in this particular case, this may not be about Planned Parenthood. I  mean, you know, we could read a lot into the silence from these Republican  candidates. I think it may be a little bit more about the gun violence in  America piece of it, not where the shooting happened, but that Republican  candidates don`t have anything good to say. And in fact, politicians of all  stripes don`t have a great answer about some of these mass shootings on American  soil, what they mean, and what to do about them.    I think maybe the Republican candidates could have done a little bit better to  talk about this, condemn the violence that happened. We did see Marco Rubio  tweet about a political murder in Venezuela, but he didn`t talk about this. But  I think the larger issue here is that they just don`t know what to do about this  particular issue.   
SHARPTON: But Joy, isn`t it a fact it`s a critical issue we are facing? A 9-year-old kid killed in Chicago, we saw finally two arrests on that just  Wednesday. Isn`t it a fact, if you`re running for president, you need to deal  with how you keel with the mass shootings?   
REID: No, absolutely. And you have in the case of this person, I think we should be calling a domestic terrorist because it does appears there was somewhat  political motive, something to do with Planned Parenthood.    But in this case, this person had a background that included domestic violence,  it included aggravating stalking, peeping tom charges, he had violence in his  background and he was still able to legally obtain a weapon of war. That is an  issue and it should be discussed in the presidential campaign.   
SHARPTON: Joy Reid, Erin McPike and John Nichols, thank you. And enjoy the rest of your day.   
REID: Thank you.  
MCPIKE: Thank you.  
SHARPTON: Up next, the new film from Spike Lee that has everybody talking, it`s called "Chi-Raq" and it addresses one of the biggest problems in America today.  Spike joins me live here in the studio, next.   
SHARPTON: The claimed filmmaker Spike Lee is back. He is back with a new movie that tackles one of the most serious problems in America today -- gun violence.  It`s the satire called "Chi-Raq" based on an ancient Greek play updated to  modern day Chicago. It is already generating lots of debate. Here is part of the  new trailer.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In Chicago, Illinois, have surpassed the death toll of American Special Forces in Iraq.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Welcome to Chi-Raq.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Land of pain, misery and strive.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody here got a man, banging and slanging and fighting for the slag risking that long dip to the cadaver bag.   
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All for the bang, bang.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Make sure these fools put down these guns.  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you want justice?      
SHARPTON: Joining me now is the man himself, Spike Lee.   Good to see you, Spike.   
SPIKE LEE, DIRECTOR: Brooklyn`s in the house.  
SHARPTON: We should am. And it is not unusual, you and I together Sunday morning?    But "Chi-Raq," it is controversial when you are calling it "Chi-Raq." Why name  "Chi-Raq?"   
LEE: Well, number one, I didn`t come with that term. The term came up by a local Chicago rapper because they felt that theof Chicago was more  dangerous that Iraq. So that not come from me. And the mayor had a problem with  that too, the mayor Rahm Emanuel.   
SHARPTON: Well, it is problems with the mayor.  
LEE: He has more problem than that.  
SHARPTON: The whole satire, though, was built on an old Greek. And it`s funny because you talk about Brooklyn, when I was in high school I read the story of  "Le Sister" -- "Lastrada." We would Brooklynize it "Le Sister."       
LEE: Brooklynese.  
SHARPTON: Right.  
LEE: But it was written in 411 B.C. by the Greek played with Aristophanes. And in this play,forms a movement. She is tired of the war. And gets --  women today are saying we are going to withhold sex from our boyfriends, from  our husbands until men put down their guns. So to that premise, the sex strike,  I mean, took it to the south side of Chicago and temporary today where it`s off  the hook.   
SHARPTON: So are people saying that you shouldn`t have made it sapphire or there`s too much sex in it or suggestions or is it they don`t want to deal with  --   
LEE: Take your pick, Rev.  
SHARPTON: OK.  
LEE: But here is a thing, though. This many different ways to tell a story, and the co-writer,and I felt that the satire used way back in 4 1 B.C.  is still the way to tell a story. Also, satire allows you to add humor to it,  not comedy but humor and still have to deal with a very serious subject matter.   
SHARPTON: Now, I see you back working with Samuel Jackson.  
LEE: Yes.  
SHARPTON: I see --  
LEE:.  
SHARPTON: Yes. And --  
LEE: Wesley Snipes.  
SHARPTON: Wesley Snipes. So you have got a lot of stars lined up.  
LEE: Jennifer Hudson, David Chappell, Nick Cannon as greatness, a newcomer Tianna Paris, Angela Basset returns, but last time worked with Malcolm X.   
SHARPTON: Right.  
LEE: She played the late great doctor.  
SHARPTON: I had a cameo with that.  
LEE: You did. John Cusack,, so we have a really great, great cast. And we got, we are doing this film in Chicago, it was really a great shooting.  We were in the hood, so. But during that time, Rev., our first day of shooting,  filming was June 1st. Our last day was July 9th. During that time, 331 people  were wounded and shot, 65 got murdered just during the production.   
SHARPTON: And that`s the real issue here is that the amount of murders - I mean, I took an apartment, we go out there once a month with Reverend Hatch and deal  with it. We just saw the arrest of two men around executing a 9- year-old. The  real point is you are using sapphire to bring out the message.   
LEE: That`s the message. I think that all the other stuff, Rev., is a distraction. The focus - the number one goal, Rev., of the film was to save  lives. I will go to my grave thinking that art could change the world. And that  was the goal of this film. We have to save lives. It comes out December 4th. And  I hope that some of the young brothers see this film and think about what they  are doing.   
SHARPTON: So it comes out this Friday, December 4th.  
LEE: This Friday, yes.  
SHARPTON: I know you are premiering it Tuesday in New York. And it`s interesting. You say you`re not going to have an after party. You are going to  have me and others march with you against violence.   
LEE: Yes. We have a march against violence. And then we should really to tie in Montgomery and Rosa Parks. Let`s tie that in, Rev.   
SHARPTON: Now, talking about the Montgomery anniversary which the day of the premiere. We also see in Chicago on the other side, this 13 months that it took  to charge this police officer in what was blatant. So you got also to deal with  the fact that we need law enforcement to fight crime, but they undercut their  credibility when they don`t deal with crimes in their own ranks.   
LEE: And so, this is what happens when the community sees something like that, they are going to be less apt to come forward and cooperate with the police when  they see this stuff, when the guy was shot down like a dog. So it`s for both  sides.   
SHARPTON: Stay with me. We`ll have more with Spike Lee after the break. Don`t go anywhere.   
SHARPTON: We are back with the one and only Spike Lee, whose new film is "Chi-Raq." It is about gun violence in Chicago and opens in theaters this  Friday.    Spike, let me bring you somewhere else. You got an honorary Oscar and all of  your home boys like we are proud.   
LEE: Denzel Washington, Samuel Jackson and Wesley Snipes.  
SHARPTON: They were there to make the presentation. But you used it as an opportunity to address the lack of diversity in Hollywood. I mean, in true  Brooklyn style, you didn`t take the bow and the gracious, you know, I thank my  mom and dad. You used it to make a statement. Tell us about it.   
LEE: Well, all the people who were there, the powers that be and I made the statement that it`s easier for a black person in the United States of America to  be president of this country than to be the president of a studio or a network.   
SHARPTON: Wow. One of the things that --  
LEE: They weren`t expecting that.  
SHARPTON: One of the things I`m sure, because we had the controversy with Sony pictures and all of that, but no real follow-up, and that certainly is something  they don`t talk a lot about in this industry. And you and I about two or three  years apart trying to bring on the next generation, me in civil rights, you in  art. Who do you see in promise in terms of directing and film making to your  level?   
LEE: Well it`s not my level. It`s I went to see this film "Creed" by a great young director Ryan Kugler, also directed that film "fruit vale station." So  this young brother coming up who came out of film school. So a lot of promise  for him. I mean, his first two films, "Fruitville" and then "Creed." I think it  made $40 million the first two days, so watch out for him.   
SHARPTON: So how does that generation behind us deal with opening up Hollywood more as you`ve laid down the gauntlet at the honorary Oscars?   
LEE: See, this is not - and if this was the NFL, we would have the Rooney rule. You can`t do that. So my thing is this, Rev. We have people in front of the  camera, behind the camera, but we are not in the room. We don`t have a green  light vote. That is where they decide what we are making, what we are not. And  we don`t, we`re not positioned on -- I don`t know of any African-American, I  mean, to get animation, but where we have a green light vote, we have a vote to  say we`re making this or not making this.   
SHARPTON: Let me get back to "Chi-Raq" and we have got to put some legs behind the whole move about dealing with gun violence and we are dealing with  accountability and law enforcement at the same time.   
LEE: Here`s the thing. I know we have to end but why does it have to be one or another? We can have Black Lives Matter and still be self-critical about what`s  happening. It`s not one or the other.   
SHARPTON: It is the same thing.  
LEE: It is the same thing.  
SHARPTON: I`m going to have to leave it there.   Spike Lee, thank you so much for being here this morning. And again, the new  film is "Chi-Raq." It opens this Friday.    That does it for me. Thanks for watching. I`ll see you back here next Sunday  morning.    THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE  UPDATED.   
