    
HIGHLIGHT: The San Bernardino attack is now being investigated officially as an act of terror after authorities uncovered evidence the two suspects both now  dead may have been radicalized and inspired by terrorist groups overseas.  Interview with U.S. Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut.     
CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: Good evening from San Bernardino, California. I`m Chris Hayes.    Tonight for the first time, we`re seeing the face of the second suspect in  Wednesday`s mass shooting. Tashfeen Malik, 27, who along with her husband, Syed  Farook, age 28, killed 14 people and wounded over 20 at a Center for the  Developmentally Disabled.    That attack is now as of today being investigated officially as an act of terror  after authorities uncovered evidence the two suspects both now dead may have  been radicalized and inspired by terrorist groups overseas.    In a joint statement with Attorney General Loretta Lynch, however, FBI Director  James Comey said the attackers appeared to have acted on their own.       
JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: So far, we have no indication that these killers are part of an organized larger group or form part of a cell. There`s no indication  that they are part of a network. Again, I quickly add, it is early. We are still  working very hard to understand. But I wanted you to know that so far we don`t  see such indications.       
HAYES: The couple apparently took pains to cover their digital trail, according to officials destroying hard drives and other equipment. Law enforcement sources  told NBC News that Malik, who was born in Pakistan and lived in Saudi Arabia  before marrying Farook two years ago, posted a statement on Facebook as the  attack began, pledging allegiance to the leader of ISIS, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi.  Facebook confirmed to CNBC in fact that it pulled down the post after the  shooting for violating its community standards.    At a press conference today the FBI, which is now officially taking over the  investigation, said the couple may also have had direct contact with other  persons of interest.       
DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, LOS ANGELES: What I`m ready to confirm is there are some telephonic connections between these two individuals, at least  one of these individuals, and other subjects of our investigation.       
HAYES: NBC`s Chris Jansing sat down tonight with Saira Khan, sister of Syed Farook, who said she`s shocked by what she`s learned about her relatives.       
SAIRA KHAN, SISTER OF SYED FAROOK: I had absolutely no idea that they were involved with anything like that or that they were even capable of doing  something like this.   
CHRIS JANSING, NBC NEWS: Who were the people you knew?  
KHAN: I mean, my brother, the brother that I grew up with, shy, introvert, you know, kept to himself, quiet. Kid that we knew that grew up and got married. And  his wife was recently here. She was only here for two years. We didn`t really  know her that well.       
HAYES: I got a chance to speak earlier with San Bernardino police chief Jarrod Burguan and ask him about the change in the case`s designation.       
HAYES: What does it mean to you that it`s -- you know, people are wrestling with this meaning of OK, now it`s a terrorism investigation. You`ve got -- whether it  was or wasn`t, right? You`ve got 14 people that got killed --   
CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: Here`s the reality. As far as I`m concerned, the way that we did this investigation from start to now would not  have changed regardless of whether this was workplace violence or terrorism. A  criminal investigation is very similar in the sense that you`re taking the  evidence that you have, you`re processing that evidence and you`re developing  the information that you have.    The FBI is tremendous in the amount of resources they can bring to the table  from an intel standpoint and that sort of stuff, but nothing would change up to  this point in the way that we`ve done this.   
HAYES: And here`s the question. Should it change for the folks that are going to get up and go to wok in San Bernardino tomorrow?   
BURGUAN: No. Rest assured, rest assured we are on a high alert of -- well, hopefully Saturday most people don`t have to work. Except for me apparently.   
HAYES: You`re up at 3:30. Right.  
BURGUAN: I don`t know about that. But I will say no. People need to live their lives. We`ve asked people for years based upon what`s happened in this country,  you`ve got to live your life, you`ve got to go out, you`ve got to work, you`ve  got to enjoy your life, you`ve got to have a quality of life, you`ve got to  spend your money. You do all those things.    But you`ve got to be vigilant too. And we know that. And don`t change that  because of this.       
HAYES: In addition to the arsenal of weapons and ammunition found in the suspects` home, authorities found what documents obtained by NBC News call a  bomb-making facility in the garage, including materials for the same kind of  ignition system used in the Boston marathon bombing. All four of the firearms  recovered at the scene of the shooting were found to have been bought legally.  The handguns both purchased by Farook himself in 2011 and 2012 before he got  married. The two rifles were purchased by a second individual, someone  authorities say they`ve now identified and located.    Earlier today, I asked an ATF spokesperson for some clarification.       
HAYES: So if the person`s been located, I just want to clarify this. That means the shooters were not the people that purchased the weapons?   
MEREDITH DAVIS, ATF SPOKESPERSON: The rifles.  
HAYES: Yes, the rifles.  
DAVIS: Correct.  
HAYES: The shooters were not the ones that --  
DAVIS: We`ve talked about Farook purchased the pistols but no one that was known to law enforcement at the time of the shootout, they did not purchase the  rifles.   
HAYES: Right.  
DAVIS: So in essence, the ATF trace results developed a new lead.  
HAYES: OK.  
DAVIS: A lead that was not known to law enforcement before the trace results came back.   
HAYES: I see. So the trace results located the initial purchaser of those two weapons.   
DAVIS: Of the rifles.  
HAYES: And the same purchaser of both.  
DAVIS: Yes.  
HAYES: And that person has been located?  
DAVIS: Correct.  
HAYES: And you know who that person is and where that person is?  
DAVIS: Correct.  
HAYES: That person is not in custody?  
DAVIS: I don`t have information on that.      
HAYES: Joining me now, Jack Dolan. He`s an investigative reporter for "The Los Angeles Times", who has been working this story incredibly thoroughly.    Jack, what do we go I guess at this point? Let`s start with the weapons. We  still know that two of them were purchased by Farook, two purchased by someone  unknown. Is there anything else more that we know?   
JACK DOLAN, THE LOS ANGELES TIMES: Well, according to the families` lawyers, the family members knew that Farook had guns in the house. They were under lock  according to the lawyers. And so, that wasn`t a cause for concern or particular  interest.    We were also asking, you know, if it`s true that the couple were using the  garage as essentially a bomb-making factory how could that have escaped the  notice of family members?    And the attorney said that, you know, while Farook was a blood relative, that  they did not have a particularly close relationship with the other members of  the family and that when family members would come over to the house, they may  have gone into the garage on occasion but certainly weren`t inspecting it.    Now, the couple, Syed and Tashfeen, they lived with Farook`s mother. So the  question was posed, well, how could somebody actually living in the house with  this couple not have known that they were creating pipe bombs in the garage?    And the answer was that the mother lived mainly upstairs, away from the garage,  and didn`t venture in there very frequently because it was Syed`s man cave.   
HAYES: You were doing some reporting yesterday about the sort of -- a clearer picture coming in of Tashfeen Malik. She`s from Pakistan, lived in Saudi Arabia.  This appears to have been essentially an arranged marriage through an online  dating site. And Syed Farook went to Saudi Arabia to meet her and bring her  back. We have a picture of her now.    Do we know anything else now new?   
DOLAN: What we were trying to find out was what her life in San Bernardino was like. We were told she was a housewife. She was a housekeeper. She stayed at  home with the baby after the baby was born in May.    We were also told that she wore a full burqa whenever family members came over  and that the men and the women separated. So they didn`t sit together. The  brothers, the male members of Syed`s family, may never have seen her face  according to the lawyers.    So, there wasn`t much new to say about her. They said she was very quiet and  they said they simply did not know and did not discuss with her her views on,  you know, world affairs or what`s going on in the Middle East.   
HAYES: The Facebook post that is in some ways -- appears to be something of a smoking gun, although we don`t know the whole story yet, there`s been some back  and forth about what happened there, whether she posted under her own name or  under an alias, but it does appear it was done literally at the moment right  before this event took place.   
DOLAN: Yes, about 11:00 a.m. So, it was shockingly close to the event.   The attorneys for the family, without going so far as saying she didn`t do it,  have raised the question of how does anyone know that it was her. If it was done  under a different name, how can they be so sure it was her? But, you know, they  don`t have the evidence themselves. They`re just raising that question.   
HAYES: All right. Jack Dolan, thanks for your time tonight. I really appreciate it.   
DOLAN: Thanks.  
HAYES: I`m joined now by Rukmini Callimachi. She`s a foreign correspondent for "The New York Times". She focuses on al Qaeda and ISIS.    And, Rukmini, you were talking today on Twitter about the kind of M.O. here if  in fact this proves to be this woman posting this pledge of allegiance to Abu  Bakr al Baghdadi, just before the attack. That`s actually not the first time  something like that has happened.   
RUKMINI CALLIMACHI, THE NEW YORK TIMES: Indeed, it`s not. The first time I think that has happened in the U.S. was when Elton Simpson, a young man from Arizona,  and his accomplice drove to Garland, Texas, in May to attack the Prophet  Muhammad cartoon competition that happened there.    And literally I think in the minutes before that attack, just as you`re seeing  here, literally right before the attack in San Bernardino, the young man took to  Twitter and he announced on Twitter that he had pledged bay`ah, which is a term  they use meaning a pledge of allegiance, to amir al- muminin, which is the term  they use for Baghdadi, the head of the Islamic State.    And that follows what we have seen of the Islamic State where they have told  their followers in the west that in order to essentially carry out an attack in  their name as lone wolves, that really all they have to do is identify  themselves as having pledged allegiance to the group right before carrying it  out.   
HAYES: Obviously, we saw in Paris, the attacks carried out by ISIS, there very different in scale and in scope and in the level of logistical complexity. It  involves operatives and involved getting safe houses and stashes of weapons and  coordinating. You were saying today that this model of what we saw transpire  here, which appears to have been essentially an attack inspired by jihadists but  not operationally controlled by them, is actually a model they`re actively  pursuing and attempting to instigate.   
CALLIMACHI: Indeed. The November 13th attacks in Paris -- I just got back from Paris two days ago -- are really the anomaly. In Paris, we saw three groups of  commandos, nine attackers. Like you mentioned, rental cars, safe houses, et  cetera. And it`s very, very hard for that kind of organization to evade law  enforcement, even though it did.    What the Islamic State and like al Qaeda before it, what they realize is that  they`re under very heavy scrutiny in the West. And so, they have created a  system for radicalizing people in situ and for claiming attacks without having  any operational link to the core.    These days, in order to get in touch with the Islamic State, all you need to do  is have a twitter account. I`ve been able to speak to them. Other reporters have  been able to speak to them. And certainly Americans, young Americans have been  radicalized just by getting in touch with them over Twitter.    Once you are in their pipeline, you are then exposed to a series of propaganda  messages that essentially teach you that as a Muslim, it is your duty to inflict  harm on the infidels, meaning the rest of us, and they give you the tools to do  that.    The pipe bombs that you`re describing that were found in the garage and that  used the ignition that we saw during the Boston marathon bombs, that I believe  is a recipe that is widely available, including in al Qaeda`s "Inspire"  magazine. So all you need really is an Ethernet cable or a Wi-Fi connection and  you are then able to just find these things online, and put together the pieces  to be able to carry it out.    We saw Elton Simpson in May. We`ve now seen this attack in San Bernardino. And  don`t forget that last year in Canada, we had two back-to-back lone wolf-style  attacks, one that was on the parliament, another that was a drive-by car  accident that again had very similar elements of people that seemed to be  radicalized, just taking it upon themselves to do an act of violence.   
HAYES: Part of the challenge I would imagine for counterterrorism officials in this situation is exactly what you said at the beginning. If you`re dealing with  a couple who are only speaking to themselves about what they`re doing, if you`re  talking about a lone individual or in the case of Boston, the two brothers,  finding a kind of in to that if they`re keeping off the Internet or if they`re  not communicating openly with people, that strikes me as a pretty difficult  thing for the FBI or anyone else to do.   
CALLIMACHI: Exactly. And what we`re seeing more and more of are family units. We saw it with the Boston bombings as you just mentioned, two brothers. In Paris  this January for the "Charlie Hebdo" attacks, we again had two brothers. And  now, we have a husband and wife.    And so, there`s really nothing suspicious about a husband and wife speaking to  each other. That`s not the kind of communications that you would normally I  think be tapping into. People are usually -- law enforcement is usually looking  for communications outside of a family unit, and I think it becomes increasingly  difficult when it`s within those closed doors.   
HAYES: Rukmini Callimachi of "The New York Times," really appreciate it.  
CALLIMACHI: Thanks, Chris.  
HAYES: Still ahead, what today`s news means for U.S. policy and counterterrorism efforts. Senator Chris Murphy joins me ahead.    Plus, attorneys for the family of Syed Farook held a press conference, as Jack  was just saying. What they said about the current rhetoric about Muslims in  America and a few other things.    And later, how that rhetoric is playing out in the 2016 campaign and why Donald  Trump says these tragedies call his polling numbers to go up.    Those stories and more ahead.       
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It`s taking off like crazy. The hats, it`s going crazy.       
HAYES: Today, Senator Ted Cruz campaigned at a gun range in Iowa, an event that had been scheduled before the San Bernardino shooting. Cruz announced his  campaign and signed up 24,000 supporters for a so-called Second Amendment  Coalition and blasted efforts in Washington to reform gun laws.       
SEN. TED CRUZ, TEXAS: Liberal Democrats think it is insensitive to celebrate our constitutional rights in the wake of a terrorist attack. It is these  constitutional rights that keep us safe. You don`t stop bad guys by taking away  our guns. You stop bad guys by using our guns.       
HAYES: Well, look at what presidential candidates think should or should not be done in the wake of the San Bernardino massacre, just ahead.   
HAYES: Since the San Bernardino shooting, there have been of course ripples through the political process and a discussion about what to do to prevent this  kind of attack. Of course, what kind of attack this was has been evolving quite  a bit over the last several days.    Some people have been very outspoken. On the day of the shooting, Senator Chris  Murphy said, "Your thoughts should be about the steps to take to stop this  carnage. Your prayers should be forgiveness if you do nothing again."    Had this been a workplace rampage with no link to terrorism, the political  discussion might have revolved once again solely around gun safety legislation,  which would have very likely gone absolutely nowhere.    But with authorities now investigating this as an act of terror, we will be  hearing much more from politicians about no doubt an expansive set of measures  they think should be taken. As just one example, today, Senator Lindsey Graham  talked specifically about the visa process that brought the female suspect  Tashfeen Malik to the U.S.       
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: For about a year now, people have been telling me about one way to penetrate America is to do arranged  marriages. That you find somebody in the U.S. that you can convert and take a  terrorist sympathizer and basically an al Qaeda-ISIL arranged marriage, and this  may be one of the first ones we`ve seen.       
HAYES: Joining me now, Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut.   Senator, let me just start with that. That was the first I`d heard of anything  like that from Lindsey Graham, but I`m already seeing people say, well, you were  just telling us how well you vet the refugees and now, you`re telling us how  well you vet the visa applicants and look what happened. What do you say to  that?   
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY, CONNECTICUT: Well, Lindsey tends to overhype many of the threats this country faces. But he`s right in one respect, which is that we do  have to take a broad look at all of the ways in which people come to this  country. There`s been this hyper-focus on the small group of immigrants,  refugees that actually get the highest level of vetting, but there are different  levels when you move to the visa program and then when you move to the visa  waiver program, those countries that don`t actually have to have their citizens  go through a visa screening process, that probably do need to be beefed up.    So, that`s a conversation that could likely bring together Republicans and  Democrats if we broaden this beyond the question of just refugees fleeing  torture and terror from Syria and Iraq and talk about the broader process of  screening immigrants into this country. There`s probably some changes we could  make that would bring the two parties together and give people the sense that  Congress really is serious about beefing up security.   
HAYES: It also strikes me that focusing on the visa avoids the more difficult issue which is Syed Farook is an American citizen. He was born in Illinois. His  brother, as far as I know, is a Navy veteran. You know, this is essentially  American as apple pie. Even if the visa, Tashfeen Malik, came over and came over  with no radicalization, that may just well have happened here.    What do you do about that part of it? Is there a policy solution for the kinds  of things I was talk talking about with Ms. Callimachi?   
MURPHY: So, I mean, I think we`re learning about the contacts this couple may have had. But what we do know is that we are building the capacity to understand  when people are becoming radicalized, when they`re talking to individuals who  may be trying to recruit those into the radical cause, and those individuals get  put on a list.    Right now, that list essentially means that they can`t get on a plane, but many  of us believe that list also should mean that those individuals can`t buy a gun  either. We tried to get that passed through the Senate this week. Republicans  almost to a man and woman stood against it.    So, there are some things we can do domestically that would apply both to  American citizens and to temporary immigrants to this country that could make a  difference. Whether it would have made a difference in this situation, I don`t  know. But it certainly can be part of the prophylactic effort moving forward.   
HAYES: I`ve seen conservative commentators and Republicans say, particularly today once the FBI official said, look, we were investigating this act of  terror, they said well, you ridiculous liberals, you`re talking about guns, this  is nothing to do with guns, this is not about guns, this is an act of terror,  we`ve got to fight terrorism, we`ve got to destroy the caliphate and you should  eat your words from, you know, days ago about talking about guns.    What do you say to that?   
MURPHY: But, of course, this is still about guns. The fact is that these two individuals who walked into this building with military-style assault weapons,  there are reports they had large-scale magazines attached to them. The fact is  they were able to kill this many people in such a short amount of time in part  because of the kind of weapons that they had.    So, of course, what unites many of these killings, many of these mass murders,  is how easy it is in this country to get your hands on weapons that are designed  first and foremost to kill as many people as possible. So, no, we shouldn`t  simplify this killing or any of the others into a conversation just about guns.  Others may have a mental health component to it. This may have a  counterterrorism component to it.    But the idea that just because these may have been radicalized individuals  doesn`t mean that there isn`t an element of this conversation in which tighter  gun safety laws would have at least meant that less people died inside of that  building.   
HAYES: As a lawmaker, I`m curious to hear how you processed the declaration today this is being investigated as an act of terror. Because I think what I`ve  witnessed happen is that it`s almost like a magic word.    We go along and I`m reminded of the shooting at the community college in Oregon,  which I don`t even know if folks remember about anymore. Numerous people were  killed. I don`t know what the individual`s motive was. We sort of never found  out. We all packed up our cameras and went home.    The declaration it`s an act of terror today means something now. It means  something about the political conversation. What does it mean to you as a  lawmaker?   
MURPHY: Well, I mean, I think there`s reason to treat this differently. In part because this could be the first incidence of an ISIS-inspired large-scale attack  inside the United States and you have to be worried about copycats.   
HAYES: Right.  
MURPHY: So, we need to take this seriously as an act of terrorism.   At the same time, there are some people today that are saying, well, you know,  because mental health wasn`t an issue here, you should just shelve that effort  and all of your efforts should be about counterterrorism and fighting ISIL.    The fact is, there are going to be more mass killings, more mass shootings.  They`re going to look like the ones in Oregon, look like the ones in  Connecticut. So, we`ve got a big job to do which involves fighting ISIS but also  involves continuing our work to make sure that the 80 people a day that are  killed by guns that have nothing to do with terrorists gets a little bit lower  and lower as days and months go on.    So, this is a big job. But the ping-pong that sometimes happens in Washington  between attacking one kind of mass shooting and then attacking another kind of  mass shooting has to end. We`ve got to look at the whole gamut of policy  responses.   
HAYES: All right. Senator Chris Murphy, thank you very much.  
MURPHY: Thanks.  
HAYES: Coming up, I had a chance to talk to two people who represent San Bernardino. Asked what they wanted people to know about their city. What they  said, ahead.       
HAYES: What your folks know -- I mean, it`s one of these bizarre things, right? Mass shootings happen and we all come in. And people out there are going to --  all they`re learning about this is this terrible tragedy. What do you want  people to know about the folks here?   
STATE SEN. MIKE MORRELL, CALIFORNIA: That`s a good question. Yes, you know, as a representative, I mean, I pray for my country. I pray for safety and for  blessings over the people of my 23rd district.    And so, you know, when this happens, it hurts. We`re a good community. There`s  always going to be bad people. You know, that`s part of human nature.    But overall, this community`s a wonderful community. So, we had some bad people,  criminals, evil people that did some horrible things here and we`re devastated  by it.       
HAYES: That was part of my interview with California state senator mike morel, a Republican who represents much of San Bernardino, a city that long before this  week`s massacre had been devastated by economic hardship. In fact, it`s now the  poorest city of its size in the entire state of California.    To understand better what the area has been going through over the past several  years I spoke with Cheryl Brown, California state assembly member, a Democrat  who grew up right here in San Bernardino and represents much of the city.       
CHERYL BROWN, CALIFORNIA STATE ASSEMBLY: We felt like we were ignored many times because we don`t get the resources here that others get. We have a city that`s  in bankruptcy. And our police force is stretched so thin. So before we feel that  -- I feel that I had to always be a champion for San Bernardino and for the 47th  assembly district. And I continue to be a champion.    Every time I get on the floor, every time I`m speaking with someone, the first  thing I ask them is what does that have to do with the 47th assembly district?  Because this district has been marginalized.    We`re the poorest district, and this is the poorest city in California and in  the nation next to Detroit. So for someone to come in and attack poor people at  a facility that`s helping disabled people -- oh, don`t let me -- that`s helping  disabled people, it really hurts so very much.           
MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, FAROOK FAMILY LAWYER: I think what the media should also be cautious about is just because he had a religion, that he was Muslim, it had  nothing to do with these acts. Islam does not agree and does not support any  type of actions that occur like this. It does not support killing. It does not  support murder of innocent individuals. And the family would never support  anything like this. And they`re giving their hearts and their prayers and  everything else that they can do to assist and the victims who lost their life  that day as well.       
HAYES: That was one of the lawyers for the family of Syed Farook who earlier this evening wrapped up what was a somewhat bizarre press conference where they  asserted repeatedly there`s no evidence the two suspects had any links to  extremist ideology, at least not definitive.    Also one of the lawyers inveighed against President Obama trying to take  people`s guns away, praised the second amendment. And he urged people not to  jump to conclusions about the two perpetrators` motives.    Joining me now, MSNBC foreign correspondent Ayman Moyheldin. And Ayman, I`ve got  to imagine the family obviously here is basically in an impossible situation.  Facing all these questions of people saying how could you not know, how could  you not know. What do you make of that press conference we saw today?   
AYMAN MOYHELDIN, MSNBC FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, I mean, I think that you really described it well. It was a somewhat bizarre press conference for some of  the reasons that were expressed in it. And what I mean by that is certainly the  fact that was confirmed by the lawyers, which was that the mother was living  with them and she was unaware of all of this activity that was taking place  inside the house, I think that struck me as a journalist seemed unusual.    He offered an explanation saying he`s trying to say that in a conservative  household she may not have been going everywhere in the house and things like  that. And again, that struck me as a little but the unusual.    These were individuals who according to the FBI planted -- or were planning and  orchestrating and fabricating in their house several pipe bombs. So the  appliances, the equipment that they had certainly would have been for any  individual somewhat of suspicion.    But in addition to, that the ammunitions they had and stuff.    He did confirm that the family knew that he had two pistols that were licensed.  So, they were aware of that.    But I think that there were some questions about that press conference.    You know, on one hand there was questions for me as a journalist, but at the  same time he was doing what he is required to do as a defense attorney, which  was really being as forthcoming as he can about this family, saying the family  absolutely did not know.    We heard it again time and time that the family was not particularly close. I  mean, they all knew each other well. But they did not know the wife. The wife --  obviously the woman who went on that shooting spree.    So I think there were a lot of questions. And I don`t think he necessarily  answered all of those questions apparently. And I think, again, there was some  confusion about what law enforcement officials have been saying, which is that  she made a post pledging allegiance to ISIS. The way he was characterizing it,  at least one of the lawyers was characterizing it in the press conference, he  was characterizing it as if she liked a post or that she -- he wasn`t  describing...   
HAYES: Visited.  
MOYHELDIN: Right. He wasn`t describing it as a pledge. In fact, he made this kind of bizarre analogy of saying that if he likes a Britney Spears post it  doesn`t mean that he likes Britney Spears` music, which again, seemed a little  bit -- a very strange analogy to make given the context of what we are talking  about here.   
HAYES: Ayman, let me ask you this. You spent years doing incredible reporting from throughout North Africa and the Middle East and in Muslim countries. You  know, one of the things that happens here, right, is the news media is not  covering women in Hijabs or inside mosques or looking at prayer mats or Korans  at all most of the time.    Then something like this happens and there`s this sort of deluge of visual  stimulus to folks. And what is your concern about how people all compute that in  terms of the associations they have with what can be just basically  run-of-the-mill pious Muslim accouterments?   
MOYHELDIN: Yeah, I mean, I think that`s -- that`s a very difficult question to answer for a few different reasons. One, the context -- and the numbers show  this. That the majority of Americans don`t necessarily interact or engage with  Muslims, don`t necessarily know a lot about the Islamic faith. And so, the  symbols to them, or these elements of the Muslim faith are always constantly  questioned. And most of the time look at it across the spectrum of all American  media, taken out of context a lot.    And I think in this particular case it`s very difficult because you have  evidence that is emerging from the FBI about the background of these individuals  but when there`s a focus, for example, on oh, a young Muslim- American went to  perform the hajj and suddenly that`s suddenly a major cause of concern, that`s  then completely taking out of context what the hajj means and what every Muslim  person is driven to perform the hajj.    Because the overwhelming people who are performing the hajj have no affiliation  with terrorism. But the way that is perceived all of a sudden is a key piece of  the evidence. It`s not to rule it out, it`s not to say nothing happened in that  process. But it`s being able to take it and put it in the right context among  all of the other characteristics, you know, wearing the veil.    And we constantly hear this. I see journalists all the time say things like oh,  he went to pray at the mosque three times a day. Praying at the mosque three  times a day for a lot of Muslims is not a sign of any political leanings. It`s  just a sign of devotion no different than individuals, you know, in other faiths  practicing their religion in different ways. It`s just a characteristic of that  faith.    So I think again, when you put that with the headlines of things like Muslim  killers, those headlines become extremely dangerous given some of the  Islamophobia we`re seeing in the country. And I would be cautious of that for  all journalists not to take things out of context.   
HAYES: All right, Ayman Moyheldin.   Haider Mullick. He`s a naval reserve officer, professor at the Naval War  College, wrote an op-ed today for The New York Times headlined "don`t make San  Bernadino a victory for ISIS"    Hader, what do you mean by that?   
HAIDER MULLICK, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE: What I mean by that is don`t have a broad brush approach that indicts an entire community. The approximately 3 million  patriotic by large law-abiding citizens whose loyalty is to the constitution and  live like everybody else. So what happens at times like this, a time of great  fear and confusion and anxiety, some folks want to put all of them in one  category.    Now I`m the first one to admit that there is a serious problem. There`s a small  cult that is very loud but very deadly within the Muslim community even here in  the United States. These are folks that we saw who went on this rampage. And  they get radicalized.    Now, they get radicalized for a whole host of reasons. But that community  exists. And one of the best things that have come out if you look at FBI data is  the community outreach program. And the last ten years many American Muslim  family members have come out and said, hey, my daughter is about to get  radicalized or is thinking of going to Syria or my son is acting differently or  has shown signs of violence. And that community gets disenfranchised. And that`s  exactly what groups like ISIS want.    They want American Muslims to feel that they will never be full citizens of the  United States. And that was my main concern.    But I also reached out to people through that piece who care less about that,  but just on a pragmatic level it`s very important to reach out to American  Muslim communities so we can gather more information, we can prevent these  attacks. And we`ve prevented hundreds of them in the last 10 to 15 years.  There`s real good data out there that FBI has produced.    And so it`s very important for that engagement to continue.   
HAYES: Haider Mullick, thank you very much for joining me. I really appreciate it.   
MULLICK: Thank you.  
HAYES: Still ahead, presidential candidates ramping up their rhetoric in the wake of San Bernardino and Paris. We`ll show you what Donald Trump said tonight,  next.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Right here in our country in California...      
SHERIFF JOE ARPAIO, MERICOPA COUNTY, AZ: I decided last week, three days prior to the unfortunate incident that`s occurring in California, to ask at least  250,000 citizens that wear concealed weapons to take action if they are ever in  a situation with large crowds where shooters are trying to kill, kill innocent  people.    My goal of utilizing 250,000 citizens armed with concealed weapons is to stop  the carnage, stop the killing before cops arrive.       
HAYES: That was the sheriff of Arizona`s Maricopa County, Joe Arpaio today, reiterating his call for citizen gun owners to act against mass shooters. We  should note Sheriff Arpaio`s call to arms is directly opposed by the chief  department an adjacent county, Steve Henry from Pinal County who says we don`t  want to walk into a gunfight between anybody, much less a gunfight where people  are untrained.    Chief Henry also warned that having gun-toting citizens firing at suspected  shooters could endanger innocent bystanders, an especially relevant piece of  advice as Arpaio specifically urged concealed carriers to fire their weapons in  situations with quote large crowds.    Also one slight correction to something I said earlier in my conversation. Chris  Murphy. I referred to the marriage between Farook and Malik, the two suspects as  arranged. That`s not true, they simply met over an online dating site. I regret  the error.       
CRUZ: Folks in the media ask at the behest of Democrats, isn`t it insensitive for us to do a second amendment rally following this terror attack? Let me tell  you something, I really don`t view our job as being sensitive to Islamic  terrorists.       
HAYES: I`ve just lost IFB, just lost IFB.   2016 Republican hopeful Senator Ted Cruz followed through with his campaign stop  at a gun range in Iowa. The event was scheduled before Wednesday`s shooting in  San Bernardino.    But the Cruz campaign did release an official reminder about the event just  hours after that deadly shooting. In the wake of the Paris attacks and now the  shooting in San Bernardino, Republican presidential candidates have amped up the  rhetoric of terror and fear on the campaign trail.       
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was wondering what you would say to President Obama now that we have had a terrorist attack right here in our country in California.   
TRUMP: It was a terrorist attack. It was. It was a terrorist attack.  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How would you handle that?  
TRUMP: Oh, I would handle it so tough. You have no idea. You don`t want to hear. You don`t even want to hear. You don`t want to hear how I`d handle it.    I will get myself in so much trouble with them. We are going to handle it so  tough. And you know what we`re going to do? We`re going to get it stopped,  because we can`t allow this to happen to our country. We`re going to get it  stopped.    And by the way -- and by the way, by the way, if the people in Paris or the  people in California, if you had a couple of folks in there with guns and that  knew how to use them and they were in that room, you wouldn`t have dead people.  The dead people would be the other guys.       
HAYES: Joining me now, Josh Barro, correspondent for the Upshot for The New York Times and MSNBC contributor -- and Joy Reid, MSNBC -- Joy Reid, MSNBC national  correspondent.    Let me read this to you about Trump`s talking about atrocities essentially. "I`m  going to protect people, and that`s why whenever there`s a tragedy everything  goes up. My numbers go way up because we have no strength in this country. We  have weak, sad politicians." The Real Clear polling average would seem to bear  that out.    He`s up about five points since the Paris attacks.    Josh, what do you make of it?   
JOSH BARRO, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: Well, Trump sometimes manages to be ridiculous without being wrong. And I think that actually is good analysis of the  situation, that people flock to him when they`re scared.    I thought that answer was interesting because it didn`t really mean anything.  They asked him what are you going to do about this? And it`s just oh, I`m going  to be so tough, I`m going to be so tough, which matches the sort of emotional  valence that voters want. I think not even just in the Republican primary. I  think a lot of voters want that. But he says that, it has no policy content at  all.    It`s partly because nobody seems to really have a clear plan on either side of  the aisle about what to do about -- well, certainly about the mess in the Middle  East and about ISIS. I think, you know, nobody wants to commit the number of  troops that would be required to actually take them out. So it`s a question of  sort of basically projecting strength without actually doing anything.    So really it matches what we`re hearing from a lot of the candidates.   
HAYES: Joy, he reiterated something he said after Paris, which got him in a bit of trouble, which was basically that if people had guns in this situation then  everything would have been fine, which does come perilously close to blaming the  victims of an atrocity, a mass slaughter.   
JOY REID, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. And he`s echoing the NRA line that, you know, if you just arm the sixth grade teachers you could have stopped Newtown,  if you armed all those people in church you could have stopped the Charleston  massacre.    But every piece of actual data that exists in the world reinforces the fact that  there`s never been a situation where the protypical good guy with a gun has been  able to stop a massacre. There was an armed security guard at Columbine who was  unable to stop that from happening.    And we`ve just never seen this actually happen in real life. Maybe on the show  "24."    But I think what we`re seeing right now is that the Republican Party and the  primary that is taking place within it is all Id, it`s all gut. It has nothing  to do with data and facts. It`s literally at least a third of the voters on the  Republican side looking in the mirror and seeing the candidate they want, the  person who`s expressing their deepest inner id.    And Donald Trump is that. He doesn`t need facts. He doesn`t need logic. He  doesn`t need data. He`s just id.   
HAYES: I want to play something Marco Rubio said today. He had some somewhat odd thoughts about bomb control. Take a listen.       
SEN. MARCO RUBIO,FLORIDA: And it doesn`t help when you have a president and a political left in this country that immediately, within seconds, within  minutes of this attack, began putting out tweets about gun control and gun  control.    Well, we need bomb control, because these people were building bombs. We need  terrorist control.    (END VIDEO CLIP   
HAYES: Josh, you know, what struck me about that were two things. One, it`s unclear whether those bombs actually killed anyone, which has to do with the  fact that bombs are actually relatively difficult to make and to handle.    And number two, we pretty much do have bomb control in this country. You can`t  have bombs. It`s illegal.    What did you make of Rubio`s comments?   
BARRO: Well, I think the one truth behind this is that I think that extremist violence is actually not that big a problem in the United States. Since  September 11th we`ve had about 80 deaths overall from extremist violence, about  half of them Islamist and half non-Islamist, which is a pace of six a year.    If we rank the things that are actually dangers to life and limb for Americans,  this is pretty far down on the list. So I think it`s true that when an incident  like in happens it`s incorrect to look at it and say that this specific thing  requires a big policy reaction, whether that`s gun control or whether that`s a  military action somewhere round the world.    Now, we do have a real problem with gun violence in general, generally not of  this sort that is politically motivated and that involves many victims at once,  and that is a real policy question.    But I do think it`s true that sometimes when a big terrible thing happens there  is a lurch to try to find a policy solution for it when really if the big  terrible thing is rare enough it doesn`t really require a direct policy  solution.   
REID: Bbut if the big terrible thing is cumulative and keeps happening and you had on the same day that the San Bernardino shooting happened you had a shooting  in Georgia that was a mass shooting, you then had the Planned Parenthood mass  shooting in Colorado, also deadly. I think it`s not that each individual  specific event requires a policy response, it`s that the accumulation of death  requires finally at long last the United States government and its leaders to  decide that it might not be such a good idea to let people stockpile unlimited  amounts of military-style armaments as if we have American warlords.    I mean, I think it`s the accumulation, it`s not each individual event.   
BARRO: But I think what`s accumulated is not mostly about military-style armaments, it`s mostly about handguns. And I think, you know, it`s not that  every type of gun needs to be legal for people to possess. But I think if we`re  trying to figure out what`s the nature of the problem and which specific  policies will aim at that problem, we don`t want to focus specifically on these  sorts of military-style events because it will actually cause us to miss the  things that are dangerous about guns in America.   
HAYES: Josh, what you just said I think is key in terms of how this sort of gets refracted through the political system. Chris Christie was talking about you`re  talking about this attack in San Bernardino, you haven`t said anything about  Planned Parenthood on the trail, why? And he basically said they`re totally  different. The one in San Bernardino was foreign actors or people inspired by  foreign actors. And Joy, that gets to something real profound about the politics  of terror, the politics of the fear of invasion or penetration by a foreign  power that has a kind of salience, particularly in the Republican primary that  other issues don`t.   
REID: Right. We define terrorism by the religious sect of the killer, not by the act and by the fact of the terror that is involved in the act. And we have a  huge problem when people are just as terrorized at a Planned Parenthood clinic  don`t get the moniker. It`s not that the moniker brings back the dead, it`s that  the policy response is different when you`re talking about terrorism.    The Timothy McVeigh attack on the Murrah Federal Building was actually terrorism  despite the fact that he was not a Muslim. It is possible for terrorism to take  place if it`s the Klan who are professed Christians, if it`s an anti-abortion  terrorist. It`s all terrorism.    And very quickly, Chris, if you watch every other candidate becoming Donald  Trump, you really get a sense of where the party is right now. They`re all  attempting to be Donald Trump, not distinct from him.   
HAYES: That is true.   Josh Barro and Joy Reid, thank you both.    We`ll be right back with some final thoughts from San Bernardino.   
HAYES: You know, I`ve now spent the better part of three weeks immersed in the strange mobile village of TV news coming to the site in the wake of an atrocity.  And it`s been weird and sad. And there`s two things I think that can get lost,  one thing for us and one thing for you.    The thing for us is in the air of competitive pressure it`s very easy to lose  sight of the fact that we are dealing with human beings. All the stories we`re  telling are about fellow human beings with inner lives and loves and hopes and  dreams and that competitive pressure, that desire to get the story can make us  forget there is a space for grace and dignity.    The other thing that gets lost I think if you`re watching all this coverage is  that we don`t cover the planes that land, as we say in the industry. That means  what happened here, what happened in Paris is blessedly rare.    THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE  UPDATED.   
