    
HIGHLIGHT: MSNBC`s coverage of the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California. All combat jobs in the United States military will now be open to women.     
LT. MIKE MADDEN, FIRST POLICE OFFICER ON SCENE: It seemed a little surreal. But yet I did the job I was supposed to do. My job is to go in there, and people  don`t call the police because they`re having a great day. They call because  there`s tragedy going on and this was tragedy that I`ve never experienced in my  career. And that I don`t think most officers do.    And so, we had to deal with it and bring them to safety and bring some kind of  calm to the chaos that was going on. So just knowing, though, that yeah, we  resolved that situation quickly but there`s so much tragedy left behind. There  are so many families as we go into these holiday season that are now going to  have to deal with the tragedy that were left behind by the senseless acts of  violence. That`s a little tough to deal with.   
REPORTER: You talked about the panic that you saw in people`s faces. How did you deal with them? What do you say to them? How do you calm them down when you  yourself are going through this chaotic situation?   
MADDEN: You know, you have to be clear in your orders. The initial 50 people did not want to come to us. They were fearful. And they were in the back hallway  area. And that actually heightened my concern and my fear that potentially the  suspects were in that hallway holding them hostage and waiting for us to enter  into the hallway. We had to tell them several times come to us, come to us. And  ultimately they did.    And once that first person took the motions forward, it opened the floodgates  and everybody wanted to come and get away from that as quickly as possible. We  can`t panic in those situations. These people have dealt with enough. The last  thing they need to see is their police officers panicking.   
REPORTER: Was it silent in there? Or did you hear screams? Can you talk a little bit about this,people you`re taking in?   
MADDEN: It was extremely loud. The fire alarms were going off. There were people who were obviously injured and obviously in great amounts of pain. That was  evidence in the moans and the wails we were hearing in the room. It was very  loud in the room. And we also had fire sprinklers going off inside the room.  That was adding to the chaos.   
REPORTER: And immediately trying to offer information about the shooters or did you get a sense to realize what had just happened?   
MADDEN: My primary goal was to find out how many and where they were. And I was asking individuals, but again, panic was obvious and apparent. So we weren`t  getting a lot of information in regards to that.   
REPORTER: Did you find the -- did your team find the bomb?  
MADDEN: No. Our team did not find any of the explosive devices. Those were found later.   
REPORTER: The room that there was a holiday party, were there decorations, food, tables, chairs?   
MADDEN: That sums it up. Yes, it was. It`s a fairly large meeting room. And I noticed upon entry that there`s a Christmas tree in there. All of the tables  were decorated for a Christmas party. And it just -- it just seemed so senseless  that here`s people going into their holiday festivities and now we were dealing  with that.   
REPORTER: You talked about the training that you have. But how do you stay calm? Do you take deep breaths going in there? Did you think about it? Did you feel  the adrenaline going through your system?   
MADDEN: Yes, I`m sure I did. But you can`t let your emotions override your judgment, and you need to do the job that we`re supposed to do. It`s what we`re  trained to do.   
REPORTER: What has it been like over the last day and a half?but you, yourself, and the other responding officers.   
MADDEN: You know, I`ve tried to make a point of those officers that I knew were some of the initial guys in with us, which there were many officers who did  extraordinary jobs yesterday for our department and also for all of the agencies  who responded so quickly. It was just -- it was truly overwhelming to see all  the agencies that got here and got here in a hurry to provide us assistance  because just like I said, I was sensing that this was a true event. They had the  same sense. And they got here and nobody hesitated.    People knew what their job was, and their job was to try to bring some calm to  chaos. So it`s one of those things. You k now, we -- I`ve gone around. I`ve  tried to contact our officers. I tried to assess how they`re doing. Talk a  little bit about it. And in doing that maybe that`s helping me a little bit as  well. So, I think we`ll all work through it together.   
REPORTER: There`s a video showing the incredible courage of an officer who`s helping people trying to get out saying I will take a bullet before you do, I`m  sure of it. Was that you? And if not, who was that? And can you --   
MADDEN: No, I`d like to think I was that cool. But no. Unfortunately, that wasn`t.    I don`t know that that officer has been officially identified as of yet, but I`m  told he`s one of Sheriff McMahon`s folks. But again, I haven`t had that  confirmed.   
REPORTER: What was your reaction when you saw that?  
MADDEN: I`m sorry?  
REPORTER: What was your reaction when you saw that video?  
MADDEN: I saw that everywhere yesterday. That was what was happening everywhere during this event.   
REPORTER: Could you address the pride that you felt with the men and women and the manner in which they acted in that scene yesterday, and can you just address  how you felt about those men and women that were under your command?   
MADDEN: You know, we`ve taken a lot of hits lately. Some justified. Much of it not justified. And it takes a toll. It takes a toll on all cops because it`s  hard being -- it`s hard being labeled and hard being branded as, you know, being  rogue or, you know -- and I guarantee you that no cop comes into this job with  the mindset oh, great, now I have ultimate power to be corrupt and to violate  people`s rights.    There are cops who go astray. But overwhelmingly, the vast majority of officers,  and when I say vast majority I`m talking 99.5 percent of the officers go out and  they do the job to protect the public, and yesterday just reminded me of that.  And it just solidified that again in my heart and in my mindset. And for that  I`m -- for that I`m thankful.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We`re going to take two more questions.  
REPORTER: You were on patrol that day. What did you hear from the residents -- obviously this is sinking in with a lot of people in this community. What have  they told you?   
MADDEN: You know, not just myself but every officer who I`m encountering right now is getting the same kind of positive encouragement and support because  again, I think this -- we can never underlie the tragedy that befell the city  and so many families yesterday. But there is support for law enforcement.   
REPORTER: Was there a moment when you realized the threat you were facing had a level of sophistication, that they had some level of training? And just to  follow up on that, did they leave anything behind in the way of a manifesto or  any notes?   
MADDEN: It was pretty clear when we knew we had an active shooter and when we saw the severity and the amount of carnage upon our initial entry that this was  -- that this wasn`t just a rogue individual. There was something more. So as far  as us finding any kind of manifesto, no, sir. I don`t have any information in  regards to that.    Thank you.   
JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE CHIEF: So, real quickly, Mike made reference early on that this was hard to believe that this was happening in his  town. Mike was raised in this town, went to high school in this town, spent the  majority of his law enforcement career in this town. It`s genuine when he says  that, that he felt that this was his town being attacked.    So with that, thank you for being here, folks. We will be back in the morning  for another press conference. And I believe somebody from the sheriff`s  department might stand by to talk about the photos and get the digital images.  Thank you very much, folks.   
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: We`re expecting that to be the last official delivery of information this evening from local authorities and in fact federal law  enforcement authorities on scene in San Bernardino tonight.    I`m Rachel Maddow at MSNBC headquarters in New York. Thank you for being with us  tonight.    That was a briefing which is very different from the other briefings that we`ve  had from law enforcement. The first difference is it started with a short but  serious statement from the governor of California, governor of California,  Governor Jerry Brown, addressing reporters briefly saying we will go as far as  we have to, to make sure public safety is protected. We also heard from the  district attorney, who talked about working with federal prosecutors as well.    We did get some new information from the San Bernardino County police chief. But  the -- and I`ll talk about that in just one second.    The bulk of what we just heard, though, was a remarkable first-person account  from a San Bernardino police lieutenant named Mike Madden who was the first  police officer on scene. We`ve not previously had him made available in terms of  talking to the press. But he just told a remarkable personal story about being  literally the first responder to this event. He`s a lieutenant in the San  Bernardino Police Department.    He said one of his responsibilities at the department is that he oversees  dispatch. So he oversees the whole system of sending officers out to potential  crime scenes in that community. And he said because of his role in overseeing  dispatch, he could tell by ear, he could tell from the voices and the tone that  was being used by the people who were working in the dispatch center that  something very serious was under way. He was only about a mile away from the  scene when those calls came out.    Again, he said he just personally recognized that this was going to be a big  deal. He immediately went to the scene. He was the first one there.    And then he just gave this remarkable recounting of the decision-making process  that he alone had to go through, and then he and the other officers that arrived  soon after he did in terms of honestly having to walk around and choose to not  help people who were hurt and who were calling out for help and who needed help.  But they were trained. He`s actually cited the Columbine incident specifically.  He said they were trained after that incident that what you need to do is not  attend to the victims there. You need to find the threat and stop the threat.    He said they believed at that time when they entered the scene that there were  still according to reports between one and three shooters still inside. He said  he had heard reports that there had been assailants who had potentially left the  scene in a black SUV, they had heard those responses but he didn`t know  especially because there might have been multiple assailants if some people who  were still inside who were the bad actors, the people who had caused this event.    He said knowing that they had to walk past people who were hurt, people who were  wounded in order to try to clear the scene, in order to try to find out if the  shooters were still there.    Specifically, he talked about two I found very moving instances. One was the  difficulty of trying to persuade the survivors, the people who had just gone  through this gun massacre, trying to persuade them that it was same to come to  police officers, that they could leave the back hall or the other areas of that  building where they had hidden or they had ended up as survivors from that  scene. It was hard as police officers to persuade people it was safe to come  with them as officers in order to get it of there.    The other thing he described, though, was just the sensory experience of being  in there, the loudness of it. We had heard from law enforcement earlier in the  day that one of the things that complicated that as a scene that need to be  cleared and ultimately as a scene that needs to be investigated was that the  fire sprinklers went off. We don`t exactly know why. The police chief had  earlier speculated that it`s possible some element of the sprinkler system had  been hit by a bullet and maybe that set it off.    But for whatever reason, as this officer described, again, Lieutenant Mike  Madden who was first on the scene, he said those fire alarms were going off and  the sprinklers were going off, and people were screaming in pain who had been  hurt. We now know 21 people had been hurt.    So, that was -- it didn`t necessarily add to the bullet points of factual  information that we had about exactly what happened here and why it may have  happened, but that was the most remarkable first person account we`ve heard from  any law enforcement officer who`s been involved in this at all. In terms of the  new information we`ve just been given, and again, we don`t expect a further  briefing from law enforcement tonight, the San Bernardino police chief who`s  done so much of this briefing, Police Chief Jarrod Burguan from San Bernardino,  he gave some very specific new information tonight.    First, they did release some new pictures, pictures that were recovered from the  scene of the shootout we believe with officers. As you can see there, some of  the images they`re releasing to the public right now as we speak are of weapons  that were recovered at the scene. We believe those to be the weapons used by the  shooters at the Inland Regional Center. They were recovered at that SUV, both  long guns and handguns. You see extra magazines there.    Also pictures of the vehicle in which those suspects engaged in this incredibly  intense shootout with police. We`ve been told that a lot of ammunition was  recovered at the scene. That obviously would be some of that ammunition. So,  they`re releasing those pictures. They were also able to be specific about the  event that was the site of the shooting. The police chief saying just tonight  that it was a department of public health event.    So, this was a San Bernardino County of public health event. And there had been  conflicting reports about whether this was some sort of meeting or whether it  was a banquet or whether it was a holiday party. We now know it was a little bit  of each. As the police chief described it, it was sort of training in the  morning that was transitioning to a holiday party in the afternoon.    We also for the first time have some numbers in terms of the number of people  who may have been on scene. We`ve been told the room in which the massacre  happened held something like 200 or 250 people in terms of its capacity. We  hadn`t previously known how many people might have been in that room. And by  extension what proportion of those people were hurt or wounded -- hurt or  killed.    We now know according to the police chief that there were 91 invited guests at  that event and they had some sort of sign-in sheet to check people in as they  arrived. 91 people were invited. They believe somewhere between 71 and 80 people  were in the room when the shooting actually happened.    Of that number of people we now know a significant proportion were killed or  wounded. Again, if there were 80 people in that room and we`re talking about 14  people killed and 21 people wounded, 35 people out of 80 being shot is  remarkable. In terms of the people who were killed and who were wounded, we do  also have some -- we have names of the victims in terms of those who were killed  that we`ll be talking about a little later on tonight.    But we were also told for the first time tonight the proportion of them who were  county employees. There were 14 people killed in total. 12 of the 14 were San  Bernardino county employees.    Of the people who were wounded, we know there were 21 people wounded, 18 of the  21 people wounded were also San Bernardino County employees.    So, I mean, you think about this as a tragedy of national, potentially  international proportions, but it is also in one very specific way a very, very  devastating local event.    Joining us live from the scene now in San Bernardino is NBC News correspondent  Chris Jansing, who was at this press conference that just wrapped up a few  moments ago and who`s been on the scene all day.    Chris, thank you very much for being with us. I appreciate it.   
CHRIS JANSING, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Happy to be here.  
MADDOW: That summary that I just gave of what we learned from the press conference tonight, is that basically it in terms of new information? Have we  learned anything tonight in this press conference and from other sources tonight  that is new?   
JANSING: I think what we have heard here really, Rachel, and you hit on it, is in addition to people who were killed and those who were wounded there are a lot  of victims here and some of them are the people who had to go into that room and  make those stuff decisions. This is something that they will live with for the  rest of their lives, as the families of the victims will, as this entire  community will. A phrase that he used that really struck me was that his job was  to try to bring calm to the chaos.    And he did in such a sort of calm way express what a horrifying scene it was  that immediately, when he went in there, he recognized that it was as horrible  as they thought it was, that immediately they realized that people had died. And  he described the other people as being in a case of pure panic.    And you mentioned that so many police officers, but this one in particular said  after columbine we were trained for this. They tried to give you a sense of even  the smells and the sounds of what it`s like and nothing can prepare you for  this. And I was at Columbine. And since then I`ve been to a lot of these,  unfortunately, Charleston very recently and Aurora, and Arizona.    And the stories from these first responders are remarkably the same, that what  they enter is a place of horror that is absolutely indescribable. The decisions  that they have to make are truly matters of life and death, and just being able  to convince people. And I`ve talked to so many people who have been in that  situation where they`re being told it`s OK now, you can come out and you can  just imagine the abject terror that they`re feeling in a situation like this.  So, for me, to hear something like that in a situation like a press conference.    And two other quick things that struck me. One, when they gave those numbers, 14  victims but 12 of them were employees. And you know, there`s been a story over  the last 24 hours about how they realize when he left he left his jacket behind.  They knew him, and he knew them.    This wasn`t somebody walking into a place and just opening fire on nameless,  essentially faceless people. These were his co-workers. These were people he  knew. And he also said what struck him was that there were Christmas  decorations. There was a tree. There were decorations on the table.    And I can tell you that when I went to Newtown, when I passed the sign that said  Newtown, the first thing I noticed is houses decorated for Christmas. And what  came to mind at that moment was there are presents under trees that children  will never open.    And I think in this season I can see where this officer and the other first  responders who had to go into that room, the juxtaposition of the celebratory  nature of the decorations and the horror of what happened there was intense and  something that they`ll be dealing with obviously for a very long time, Rachel.   
MADDOW: Chris Jansing in San Bernardino -- Chris, thank you very much for that. I know it`s still a long night ahead reporting. Thank you, Chris. I appreciate  it.   
JANSING: Thank you.  
MADDOW: I will say, you know, what Chris was just describing there, in terms of hearing the same type of accounts from first responders, what people talk about  in situations like this, whether or not the shooting is ongoing when they don`t  know if the shooting is ongoing, the decisions they have to make to walk past  people who are hurt and who want help, we heard that just recently in Paris. You  may remember that remarkable interview that Lester Holt did with the SWAT team  captain, the commando French police captain who was wearing a ski mask when he  was talking to him.    And even that veteran of many elite commando-style raids talking about how  devastating it was for him to have to step over people who were hurt and needed  help and were asking for help. And you could potentially help them. But more  than that, you had to stop the event from being an ongoing event. More than  that, you had to find the shooter and stop them.    It`s an American -- it`s an aspect of American law enforcement as this  lieutenant said tonight. Since Columbine, they train that way. But they train  that way with these elite forces around the globe too because that`s the way  they have to do it.    And it has a human toll on police just like it does -- just like it would on  anyone. So, we`re getting an important I think picture of that tonight. But  we`re also still getting new information including on this -- I don`t want to  say all-important but this incredibly important question of motive. And about  the links of these suspects in this shooting, the suspects who have died, who  have been found in that SUV, the links between them and other people in the  world who may have inspired this, other people in the world who may have been  involved in purchasing any of these weapons.    A lot on the investigation side of this is still very, very important stuff that  we`ve mostly still got questions about and we`ve got the latest on that  investigation with NBC`s Pete Williams right after this.    Stay with us.       
MADDEN: I`ll tell you that it was something d that although we trained for it it`s something you`re never actually prepared for. When we got the call -- I  oversee dispatch. It`s one of my functions and responsibilities with the police  department.    And I know my dispatchers. I know the tone of their voice. I know the severity  of calls as they`re going out. And I could hear it in our dispatcher`s voice,  that this was actually happening, this was a real event, and it was the event  that we have an active shooter and we have an active shooter going on in our  city.           
GOV. JERRY BROWN, CALIFORNIA: When it comes to people who engaged in these kind of vicious brutal acts, we`ll spare nothing in bringing them to justice and  protecting the people along the way. So I don`t know what this means going  forward, but I think we have to be on our guard. We can`t take anything for  granted.    And I just want to assure my fellow citizens here in California that we`re going  to go just as far as we have to, to make sure that public safety is protected.       
MADDOW: California Governor Jerry Brown speaking just moments ago, saying we`re going to go as far as we have to, to make sure public safety is protected,  saying we will spare nothing in terms of bringing them to justice.    We don`t know what he means by that. I`m not sure what he means by that. At this  point, what we`re getting is statements of resolve. We`re not getting statements  about what`s next.    But what we know about the investigation into this crime is next here on this  show with NBC`s Pete Williams.    Stay with us.   
MADDOW: So, at this hour, we still have an incomplete picture of the suspects and their motives. In terms of what we do know, we know they have at least four  guns, we know they had a ton of ammunition both on them when they were killed  and also inside a residence in Redlands, California, that investigators are  still combing through.    At the scene of the shooting in San Bernardino yesterday morning and at that  same residence, we also know they had assembled numerous pipe bombs, although we  don`t know much about the sort of quality and character of those bombs, we just  know there were 12 of them at that house and one of them that appears to be  three pipe bombs strung together in some way that did not explode at the site of  the shooting.    We also know the suspects had traveled internationally fairly recently. There  are also now indications that at least one of the suspects may have been  radicalized in some way.    I can`t be more specific about that but joining us now is NBC News justice  correspondent Pete Williams, who`s been following this investigation very  closely.    Pete, what can you tell us about the investigation, particularly into radical  ties from one or both of these suspects?   
PETE WILLIAMS, NBC NEWS JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Right. Well, law enforcement officials are not saying at this point whether either of these two people were,  quote/unquote, "radicalized". What they do know is Syed Farook was in touch by  electronic means, by the cell phone, by telephone, by social media, with people  who had radical jihadist views, both in the U.S. and overseas.    Some of these people had gone on and off the list of people that the FBI and  local law enforcement had been keeping an eye on over the years. In some cases  it was sort of a glancing kind of conversation. In some cases it may have been  more extensive.    But did that indicate a -- just seeking out like-minded individuals, or was that  something that moved them toward a more radical philosophy? They have no idea of  that yet. So, if he was radicalized, if this was radical jihadism brought to the  U.S., where did that come from? They don`t know the answer to that.    They don`t know whether it was through the Internet, as some people have become  radicalized. They don`t know whether it was on foreign travel. He`d been to  Saudi Arabia twice. He`d been to Pakistan at least once. They just don`t know.    That is one of the main reasons why they`re not saying whether this was an act  of terrorism or some kind of -- something else.   
MADDOW: Should we expect those people he was in contact with are now going to be questioned, are going to be contacted in some way, be brought into the  investigation by U.S. authorities?   
WILLIAMS: You certainly should. And some of them already have been. In some cases, the FBI has determined that nothing much happened there. But that`s one  of the lines of inquiry.    Another is the electronic devices themselves. Did they find things that were  downloaded on the Internet? For example, if you think about the Boston marathon  bombing investigation, officials made much of the fact that the Tsarnaev  brothers had downloaded copies of the al Qaeda magazine "Inspire". They believe  that`s where they got the instructions to build their bombs.    Now, you mentioned the remote-controlled device that was three pipe bombs taped  together that the police say was left in the conference room that was attacked.  They say that had a remote-controlled detonator made from parts of a model car.  And the remote controller in the car also was that same kind of model car remote  control. The recipe to build that is very similar to what the Tsarnaev brothers  used for their remote detonator from an issue of the al Qaeda magazine  "Inspire".    So, did Syed Farook get his recipe for that from "Inspire"? That`s a possibility  they`re looking at. Was there some place to find those same instructions that  wasn`t in a jihadist kind of a circuit? They`re looking at that as well.   
MADDOW: In terms of cell phones and computers and anything else that was obtained here, I`m thinking particularly from that house in Redlands if that was  in fact where they were residing or at least where they were working, do we know  anything in terms of the timing, when that stuff will be turned around, how  quickly the FBI works on stuff like that?   
WILLIAMS: Well, it can happen very fast. Except we`ve been told that they intentionally tried to damage some of these things. They were damaging hard  drives, smashing cell phones. So, it`s going to slow that process down  considerably.    Now, they`ve shipped a lot of that material back. They`ve got airplanes that are  taking material every day, sometimes twice a day, from San Bernardino to the FBI  lab here in suburban Washington where they have some experience at looking at  damaged computer parts to see if they can recover data.    It doesn`t always work, but sometimes it can be successful. Someone thinks  they`ve rendered their hard drive inoperable. Well, they can figure out ways to  recover some of the data. It`s not easy. And the main thing is it takes a lot  more time.    So to answer your question, it`s going to take longer.   
MADDOW: NBC News justice correspondent Pete Williams -- totally indispensable, as usual, in situations like this. Pete, thank you very much.   
WILLIAMS: OK. You bet.  
MADDOW: We`re going to have more on the mass shooting in San Bernardino, what else is going on in the world, straight ahead. Stay with us.   
MADDOW: At this hour, there are multiple vigils for the victims in yesterday`s shooting that are just getting under way in San Bernardino. You`re looking at  live pictures from what is expected to be the largest vigil of the night. This  is a stadium in San Bernardino called San Manuel Stadium. That vigil tonight,  it`s a stadium that holds about 4,000 people. You can see it`s filling up  quickly.    That vigil tonight is being hosted by the city itself. That`s in addition to a  number of other smaller vigils and memorials under way at local churches, as  well as a nearby mosque. All in honor of the 14 people killed and the 21 people  hurt in yesterday`s attack.    One of the new pieces of information we`ve received tonight is the names of all  14 people who were killed in this attack. Those names have now all been released  by the county coroner.    Larry Daniel Kaufman. He apparently ran the coffee shop at the Inland Regional  Center, which is where the attack happened.    Damian Meins, he was an employee of the San Bernardino County of Environmental  Health.    Sierra Clayborn, she`d been working with the county and Environmental Health  Department since 2013.    Nicholas Thalasinos, he was a county health inspector.    Michael Wetzel worked as a supervising environmental health specialist with the  county.    Bennetta Bet-Badal, she was a county health inspector.    Robert Adams was an environmental health specialist with the county.    The other victims, their names we have are Shannon Johnson, Aurora Godoy, Isaac  Amanios, Harry Bowman, Yvette Velasco, Tin Nguyen, Juan Espinoza.    Fourteen people killed in this attack altogether, 21 wounded. And as we have  just learned this hour, of the 14 people killed, 12 of them, 12 of the 14 were  employees of the county of San Bernardino. Of the 21 people who were wounded, 18  of them were county employees as well.       
MADDEN: As I was looking and seeing all of the activity and trying to assess what was happening, I was informed that that was the location where this was  happening and I was asking for officers to respond as quickly as possible  because we had every belief at that time we had people still actively being shot  inside of the building. My goal was to assemble an entry team and enter into the  building to engage the active shooter.       
MADDOW: San Bernardino Police Lieutenant Mike Madden, who was the first officer on scene, who gave a remarkable first-person account tonight of having been the  first law enforcement officer on scene, what he encountered when he got inside  the scene of that mass shooting yesterday.    Joining us now is Jack Dolan. He`s an investigative reporter for "The L.A.  Times." He`s been among other things look into the backgrounds of the two  suspects and trying to answer some of the unknown knowns here.    Jack Dolan, thank you very much for being with us.   
JACK DOLAN, LOS ANGELES TIMES INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER: Good evening.  
MADDOW: One of the things I wanted to ask about specifically was the guns. We`re told that there were four guns recovered from the two suspects who were deceased  in the SUV. They believe they were all purchased legally and they said two of  the guns were purchased by one of the named suspects who`s deceased.    Are we any closer to knowing who the other legal furrier was of the other guns  and how those guns might have made it to these suspects?   
DOLAN: No, not so far tonight. But the primary shooter, alleged shooter, Syed Farook, there was nothing in his background that would have prevented him from  buying a gun legally. You know, he had a really, really mundane record here in  southern California. So nothing would have stopped him.    And then his wife, Tashfeen -- I mean, she`s such a recent arrival that public  records usually don`t turn up anything on somebody like that. We have as much  access to them as frankly the people doing criminal background checks in  California. And there would be nothing in either of their backgrounds that we  can see that would have prevented it.   
MADDOW: And so, I mean, that doesn`t necessarily mean that they were trying to evade a background check system that they would have passed anyway. I mean, it`s  possible they had a private sale of some kind because they found guns they  wanted cheaply for sale somewhere else.    In terms of figuring out whether or not there is ties to terrorism, ties to  radical extremists of some kind, do you have any sense of what direction the  investigation is going or if there`s anything that`s known about them from the  local community and either of their backgrounds that`s been a real red flag so  far?   
DOLAN: Well, what we know from federal officials is that, you know, Syed Farook made two trips overseas, to Saudi Arabia in the last couple of years. One was to  go to the Hajj in Mecca, and other was just last year to go pick up the woman  he`d met online and that he planned to marry. So, there`s nothing in that  inherently that`s a red flag.    But certainly last night when my colleague and I, Steven Caesar, were reaching  out to employees of the San Bernardino Health Department, trying to find anybody  who might have witnessed it, we happened upon people who were not only sitting  at the table with him at that party where the shooting occurred but they were  also -- one was his cubicle mate. Another sat like four feet away.    And they were telling us -- well, he`s Muslim, but he`s not devout, he`s not  evangelical. He doesn`t proselytize. But he did, by the way, make a trip to  Saudi Arabia to pick up, you know, a woman he`d never met and bring her back as  his wife.    And the fact that she was a part of this shooting -- I mean, women just are not  -- you don`t want to be sexist, but women are not generally part of mass  shootings.   
MADDOW: Right.  
DOLAN: So you can certainly see why the FBI is looking into her background.  
MADDOW: Jack Dolan, investigative reporter for "The L.A. Times" -- thank you for your time tonight, and thanks for your reporting. We`ve all been following it  very closely. Thanks, Jack.   
DOLAN: Thanks.  
MADDOW: All right. We`ve got more ahead on this and other matters. Stay with us.  
MADDOW: November 2009, U.S. Army Major Nidal Hasan opened fire at Fort Hood in Texas. He killed 13 people and wounded 32 others. But then two years after that,  two years after that very high-profile attack, you might remember there was  another plot against Ft. Hood by another U.S. soldier.       
WILLIAMS: Law enforcement officials say an army private who wanted out of the service because he`s a Muslim plotted this attack, saying he wanted to, quote,  "get even with the military for the fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan."    Investigators say his targets were fellow soldiers at the army sprawling Ft.  Hood. Texas police revealed today that they arrested Private First Class Nasser  Jason Abdo yesterday at a motel near Fort Hood. In his room, ATF agents found  enough explosives to make at least two time bombs. The police chief called Abdo  very dangerous.       
MADDOW: So, in that case, this was the summer of 2011, the would-be attacker of Fort Hood planned on setting off bombs at restaurants near that Army base that  were popular with soldiers. He aroused suspicion by paying cash for a large  amount of gunpowder and ammunition at a local gun store. The gun store owner  called police. Police ended up tailing the guy to a hotel room where he was  staying, and that was fortuitous.       
WILLIAMS: Officers tracked the young soldier to this nearby hotel. In his room, all of that ammo, a pistol, the components to make two bombs, and a backpack  with jihadi literature, including an article from the al Qaeda online magazine  "Inspire". Its title, "how to make a bomb in your kitchen."       
MADDOW: The attack in that case was foiled by police. That was July of 2011. Then, just a few months later, a story with a similar theme, although this time  the target was New York City.       
REPORTER: Police say if Pimentel had been able to build and place the bombs this tape of an NYPD test shows damage he could have caused.    At a Sunday night news conference New York City officials showed a mockup of the  devices. Some ingredients bought at local stores with the help of an NYPD  informant. And police say Pimentel was following bomb-making instructions  straight out of al Qaeda`s "Inspire" magazine.       
MADDOW: Again, instructions straight out of al Qaeda`s magazine. The criminal complaint in that case, November 2011, laid out step by step just how closely  that would-be bomber in New York City followed the instructions in the al Qaeda  magazine.    That New York City bus in 2011 was not a guy plotting a shooting spree. It was a  guy plotting to use pipe bombs to wreak havoc in the city.    Then two years later, in April 2013 it was the Boston marathon bombing. And that  attack was mostly remembered for the pressure cooker bombs that were planted  during the finish line of that marathon. Those two bombs did explode. They  killed three people. They injured close to 300 people.    But the Boston marathon attack also involved more bombs, homemade pipe bombs.       
REPORTER: Jurors saw firsthand the type of explosives that were used. State police bomb technician Robert McCarthy told the jury, robots were used to use  three devices found in Watertown that did not detonate. They included an  elbow-shaped pipe bomb filled with powder and BBs. He told the jury, "I always  call it an improvised grenade. The elbow shape means when it`s tossed it won`t  roll away."    The prosecutor walked the now inert device over to the jury for a closer look.  They also saw a straight pipe bomb and a Tupperware device found behind the  driver`s wheel in the stolen Mercedes SUV. It was filled with two to three  pounds of power, topped by Green Hobby fuse wire.       
MADDOW: Turns out the Boston bombers, they, too, were following specific instructions on how to build those bombs. Investigators recovered files from the  Tsarnaev brothers that included the same al Qaeda magazine article that detailed  step by step instructions with pictures about how to make a pipe bomb at home.    Look at this, the image on the left is a picture from the al Qaeda magazine from  their instruction sheet. The image on the right is the pipe bomb that actually  was built by the Tsarnaev brothers and recovered at the scene of their  confiscated in the confrontation with the police in Watertown. They followed  those al Qaeda magazine how-to instructions pretty well, or at least that`s what  it looks like.    And the truth is we do not know whether this latest incident in San Bernardino  with this couple had anything to do with al Qaeda`s magazine. That`s something  we don`t know at all, but we can tie that magazine and its step by step  pictorial instructions to a bunch of different U.S. terrorist attacks and  attempted terrorist attacks.    And in this case, we know that this couple had more than just an armory worth of  ammunition and at least four guns. We know that they had more than a dozen pipe  bombs, 12 at a home in Redlands that`s tied to the couple who committed the  shoot, and one device they parentally left at the center where the shooting  happened, even though it didn`t detonate.    Police say that one, as Pete Williams described earlier, it was essentially  three pipe bombs strapped together with some detonator or some other sort of  device that appears to have come out of a remote control car. At this point, we  do not yet know exactly how these bombs were constructed, what sort of  explosives were used, whether they were even fully functioning.    "Inspire" magazine is not the only place where you can learn to make a pipe  bomb. You can find manuals all over the internet on how to make bombs like these  and other bombs as well.    But will the specific construction of these devices that they`ve got now, 13 of  them at least, will that tell us anything about whether these folks were  trained, whether they had help? Or even where they got their instructions on how  to do this.    The existence of the bombs tells us this isn`t just another mass shooting. What  are the forensics on the bombs themselves going to tell us about the shooters  and where they came from and why this happened?    Joining us now is a Scriven King. He`s an explosive ordnance expert. He served  in the Air Force. He`s now a national security professional with the terror  asymmetric project on strategy, tactics and radical ideology better known as  Tapestry.    Mr. King, thanks for being here.   
SCRIVEN KING, EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE EXPERT: Thank you for having me.  
MADDOW: Is it fair to think about bombs as having forensic signature that allow you to trace them, at least if not to the bomb-maker then to the person who gave  instructions?   
KING: Sure. It allows you an opportunity to look at certain things -- the construction can give you a clue as to the sophistication, if you`ve seen this  sort of device someplace else, how common it is to see this. For instance, pipe  bombs are extremely common throughout a number of operations, not just limited  20 terrorists. They`re also known for other mass shootings.   
MADDOW: So combining explosives, homemade explosives with gun fire is not that uncommon in terms of mass shooting?   
KING: It is not that uncommon. As recently as 2014, there was a shooting in Las Vegas -- or excuse me, there was a shooting fairly recently where they also used  pipe bombs.    There was also another use of pipe bombs in Columbine. We saw a number of  rudimentary devices there. We`ve seen them with the Boston bombings as we saw  previously. The reason they use them primarily is to draw in first responders.   
MADDOW: As essentially a secondary attack. So, they want to be able to kill first responders after they`ve already committed the initial assault that`s  brought the first responders to the scene?   
KING: That is correct.  
MADDOW: You said pipe bombs are common. How dangerous is it to make them? I mean, I`m struck by the fact that they apparently made 12. I don`t know if they  made 12 well. But they made 12 well enough not to kill themselves while making  them.   
KING: The components that are used to make these rudimentary devices are often very volatile. So often times there are more dead bomb makers than victims at  times. It`s not uncommon in certain locations to find a bomb- maker without any  fingers or missing limps. The components are extremely volatile.    We look at a compound as at TATP, which was an explosive used in Paris, or look  at gunpowder. I mean, if it`s not stacked correctly in the casing, if you got a  static charge for instance off your hands, they can be a source of ignition for  the explosive. So, it`s not uncommon.   
MADDOW: The kind of instruction that is given in the al Qaeda magazine, and again, we have no idea if that`s the kind of construction that was found with  these pipe bombs in San Bernardino, is that a generic enough type of  instruction, a generic enough template that it won`t tell us anything about the  sort of ideological inspiration for this attack if there was one?   
KING: Yes. Bomb making is a very simple -- can be a very simple process. If you`re talking about rudimentary devices, having a pipe bomb is not necessarily  indicative of belonging to a certain group, like it won`t tell me if you`re a  member of al Qaeda, and it won`t tell me if you`re a member of ISIS. There will  be other components that will help me in that process. Certainly, the bomb  certainly kind of will also help me along as well.   
MADDOW: Forensically, among lots of other leads at this point, but at this point we`ve got so many more questions than we do answers.    Scriven King, national security professional with Tapestry, thanks very much for  being here. Appreciate it.   
KING: Thank you for having me.  
MADDOW: We`ve got much more ahead. Stay with us.  
MADDOW: So, if the San Bernardino attack had not happened, or frankly if it had just been better explained by now, if we had fewer unanswered really important  big questions about it, if either of those things were true, the ore major news  story that the country would be riveted by right now is the historic decision  made by the Pentagon, the decision that all combat jobs in the United States  military will now be open to women.    The Armed Forces have been studying that prospect for three years now. It became  a very high-profile prospect when women graduated from Army Ranger School for  the first time in history earlier this year. A lot of people said that could  physically never happen. It happened.    But even with that, nobody had been sure if all combat jobs would be open to  women or just some. Now, we know as of today, it`s all of them. The chiefs of  the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the Special Operations Command had all  agreed already that all of their combat jobs could be open to women.    There was a hold-up, though. The Marine Corps did not agree. The commandant  requested exemptions to keep women out of some specific combat jobs.    We now know that Marines request for those exemptions has been denied. One  standard, all services, all jobs. All services will now open all jobs to all  service members depending on merit alone and not gender. That includes Special  Operations, that includes artillery, infantry, armor and all other frontline  combat positions.    The services have a very short time frame. They`ve got until January 1st, which  is the end of this month, right? January 1st to submit their plans of how they  are going to do this in terms of opening all jobs to women. They have to have  these changes implemented, the start of implementation has to be April 1st.    So this is going to happen fast now. This has been debated for years. This has  been debated now for decades. But as of today, it`s done, decision made and as  of April 1st, it is going to be implemented.    Now, next question -- the draft. All young American males have to register with  the selected service within 30 days of turning 18, that`s in case they bring  back the military draft.    Will all young American women have to start registering within 30 days of their  18th birthday now, too? That is an open question. Not yet decided but it will be  soon. Everybody, freak out.    That does it for us. Now it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL".    Good evening, Lawrence.    THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE  UPDATED.   
