    
HIGHLIGHT: Two suspects dead, one detained in San Bernardino mass shooting. FBI official cites possibility of terrorism in San Bernardino shooting. One suspect  of San Bernardino shooting identified as Syed Farooq. Police in San Bernardino  raid suspect`s residence. Fourteen dead, seventeen injured in California mass  shooting. Police in San Bernardino say they have no known motive for mass  shooting. Police deploy bomb disposal robot near the shooting scene in San  Bernardino.     
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: There is another suspect that police believe -- suspects being dead in that SUV. Again, they`re being described as a man and a  woman armed with handguns and long guns.    Those two suspects deceased. We don`t know if there`s another suspect that  police believe is at large. They do say they have one other person in custody,  but they will not say whether or not they think that person was involved in  today`s shooting.    Our continuing live coverage of the situation in San Bernardino continues now on  MSNBC. Stay with us throughout the night.   
LAWRENCE O`DONNELL, MSNBC HOST: Right now, police are still on the scene of that mass shooting in San Bernardino where one explosive device has been found.    The shooting happened at 11:20 a.m. Pacific Time at the Inland Regional Center;  social services facility for people with disabilities, based on witness  statements.    The shooting took place in a conference room possibly during a Christmas party,  14 people were murdered, 17 people were injured.    Police searching for one of three shooters who fled in a black SUV. Four hours  later, police cars were seen at standoff with suspects in a black SUV.    Two of the suspects were killed in that shootout. Here is the San Bernardino  sheriff at a news conference a short time ago.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But the suspects that were -- that are dead at the scene, one is a male, one is a female. They were dressed in kind of assault-style clothing.    I think that it`s probably the best way to term it. They are -- they are both  armed with assault rifles, they are both armed with handguns, and there`s also  kind of some sensitive stuff around the vehicle.    They`re not real sure, we`re taking a very cautious approach to dealing with the  vehicle in case there is more explosives there.       
O`DONNELL: Authorities did not release the names or descriptions of the suspects, but they said they did not yet know any motive.    Nbc News reports that one of the three suspects of the attackers was Syed Farooq  and a second is believed to be Farooq`s brother. The identity of the woman is  unknown.    At tonight`s news conference, the FBI assistant director in charge for Los  Angeles did not rule out terrorism.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I know one of the big questions that will come up repeatedly is, is this terrorism? And I am still not willing to say that we know that for  sure.    We are definitely making some movements that it is a possibility -- we are  making some adjustments, start an investigation, it is a possibility but we  don`t know that yet.       
O`DONNELL: The FBI is currently searching Syed Farooq`s residence in Redlands, California, which borders San Bernardino. Joining us now from San Bernardino is  MSNBC`s Jacob Soboroff. Jacob, what`s the situation there?   
JACOB SOBOROFF, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Lawrence, right now we are at yet another roadblock in the San Bernardino area.    This is the second neighborhood -- residential neighborhood I should say, that  has been completely evacuated of residents that we have seen tonight.    Earlier this evening, we were at a different neighborhood that had heavily armed  tactical military-style vehicles from the San Bernardino county sheriff`s  department.    And the common threat seems to be a search perhaps for explosive devices. We`re  hearing that about the Redland search.    And earlier tonight in San Bernardino, they were telling us, in fact, to take  shelter for potential explosive devices that they may or may not find when a  manhunt or it seemed was undergoing.    Just down this street now is Cooley Street. We don`t know exactly what is going  on here, but law enforcement officials continue to move residents from this  area, away from Cooley Street, just a block down that way.    And we`re just waiting to see what if and when they will be letting people,  Lawrence, back down that street.   
O`DONNELL: And what about the search, the continuing search for the third shooter. What do we know about that?   
SOBOROFF: We would assume, Lawrence, if that`s what`s going on here in San Bernardino. We`re only amazingly 1.4 miles away from where this incident took  place this morning at the Inland Regional Center.    And that`s where the bulk of this manhunt seemed to have been taking place  earlier this evening. It`s literally a walking distance from where this  incredible tragedy took place at 11:14, I believe was the first police call this  morning.    And still ongoing, again, just under two miles away from that location, it seems  that one would assume, but we cannot say for sure whether it`s a manhunt or a  search of just these residents for that suspect is still under way.   
O`DONNELL: Thank you, MSNBC`s Jacob Soboroff in San Bernardino, thanks very much for joining us. We are joined now by retired ATF agent and MSNBC analyst Jim  Cavanaugh.    Jim, we now have a name, you`ve been watching these developments since we  started our live coverage of this situation.    What about discovering the name Syed Farooq and that his brother is the other  suspect in this, the other male suspect, the female suspect we`d have no  identification on? What does that do to help put the pieces together here?   
JIM CAVANAUGH, RETIRED ATF AGENT: Well, it helps a little bit and the fact that, you know, to get people to commit a mass violent act like that, it would take  somebody very close to you.    And that could be somebody who is in a criminal organization, a criminal gang  organization or somebody related to you.    So, you know, someone that would buy into your reason for whatever the  motivation is behind the shooting, Lawrence.    So, I`m not surprised that we`re finding out brothers, we don`t know the females  connection, would not be surprised to find out it`s a wife, girlfriend, sister  and also a relation or also a relation.    So that may give us a little bit of insight into, you know, how you could get  three people to commit mass murder, but it doesn`t really tell us the actual  motive for the mass murder.   
O`DONNELL: Jim, we saw how slowly and carefully the police moved today. Once they closed in on something, they were moving very quickly to catch up with  these people.    Once they closed in on that SUV, even after the shooting when it was -- when it  appeared that they were dead, they were still taking these extreme precautions  with the vehicles they were using to approach that situation.    And we`ve just -- the "L.A. Times" is reporting now -- actually reporting ten  minutes ago that the coroner has still not removed the bodies from the locations  of the murders.    How unusual is that in a situation where you have those 14 bodies and the  coroner conducting this investigation for it to take that amount of time?   
CAVANAUGH: Yes, it`s probably not that unusual, given the massive crime scene that you`re dealing with.    They`re going to be under some pressure though to get in there and get the  pictures taken quickly and be able to get remains removed by the coroner.    You know, I`m sure, they`re working all night. But remember, they don`t even  have the situation settled as -- is there a third shooter loose in the  community?    So, that command post is really ramped up. But I think the activity we`re seeing  Lawrence is the commander is trying to decide, trying to uncover, finally decide  is, you know, who is loose?    Is this a brother loose? We have to find him and that kind of takes precedence.  But they`re going to have to work through the night and they do need to get  those people who have been killed out of there once they at least do a  photographic record of the crime scene, so they can move them.   
O`DONNELL: And Jim, as we saw the day unfold, it seemed that the first theory that the police were operating under was that this was a work place, rage crime  of some kind.    Possibly someone involved in that work place. Then that theory seems to have  drifted a bit tonight into the possibility of terrorism.    But we now know that Syed Farooq is listed -- there is a Syed Farooq who is  listed as an environmental health specialist working in the Inland Regional  Center.    Syed Farooq is also listed as the resident at 53 north center street in  Redlands, which is the house that`s being searched tonight.    And so we may have an employee of the center involved in this killing and the  motivations might come from outside the center. I mean, all things seem possible  now.   
CAVANAUGH: No, that`s right. There`s a lot of questions like that, you laid it out just right. I mean, it could be an employee issue or revenge issue.    How would you get other people involved? Well, they`re so close to you, a  brother, a spouse, a girlfriend, and also we do have proximity.    You know, we think that all this time, attackers are coming from a far distance.  This house in Redlands is maybe 15 minutes away, pretty an estimation not far  off of that.    So the report earlier that could -- they have been kicked out of a meeting,  could there be some feelings, really bad personal feelings against the group  because they were mistreated.    That could be shared by a brother or a spouse as well and then they would go  back, you know, and launch this attack. That`s certainly possible.    That would be more like a revenge motive. Could there be other things floating  around? You know, motives, Lawrence, don`t have to be just one thing.    Sometimes they`re mixed, and there could be a lot of things going around in  people`s lives in their heads that we don`t quite have that yet.   
O`DONNELL: We`re joined now by Congresswoman Norma Torres, she represented San Bernardino as a state senator, now represents California`s 35th congressional  district, that`s just west of San Bernardino.    Congresswoman Torres, I`m very sorry for what you and your community is going  through tonight dealing with this. But tell us about the Inland Regional Center  and how it serves that community.   
REP. NORMA TORRES, CALIFORNIA: The Inland Regional Center is a key partner in providing services for people with disabilities in the community.    They serve about 35,000 people and have 600 employees that come through that  facility every day, whether they`re working there directly or providing services  within the community.    So, this is a very tragic event for us in San Bernardino.   
O`DONNELL: And does it have -- does that facility have the air of a government office to it? I mean, if someone was interested in attacking a government  facility, state, local government or federal government facility in San  Bernardino, would that building have some attraction?   
TORRES: Absolutely not. Like I said, the people that come to this facility have severe disabilities, they`re coming there for services. If one wants to attack  the government, certainly we would not look to a place like this to do that.   
O`DONNELL: And Congresswoman Torres, how do you expect the community to be able to deal with the aftermath of this -- given that this is going to take a while,  it`s going to take a lot of patience.    Even just getting the names of victims, finding out who`s actually been injured  here as the "L.A. Times" has been reporting. The bodies have not yet even been  removed from the site of the murders.    It seems like this is going to be -- this is going to be a long haul for the  community.   
TORRES: Absolutely. And I have talked to local representatives, a councilwoman and a council member of San Bernardino, and as they explain to me, the  situation, it`s extremely somber.    The family members of the victims are, you know, very upset and they want  answers. It`s very difficult to try to put them off and say we are still  developing, and we`re still investigating.    The situation is very fluid right now, very difficult for us to give those types  of answers when people want to see their loved ones.   
O`DONNELL: There`s some really heartbreaking stories coming out in local media in Los Angeles, especially -- and some stories of great strength.    One young man was in there, hit with three bullets and he managed to call his  wife. He`s only been his wife of two weeks, called his father, said I`m OK.    He was able to get that cellphone message out and say that he was already being  taken care of by police.    Have you heard more stories like that of people who were in there, in trouble,  who were able to make cellphone calls and get the word out to their loved ones  that they were OK?   
TORRES: Yes, I have heard several instances where people were leaving messages, phone messages and family members are trying to get back to them because of the  situation of, you know, whether they`re at a hospital or being transported to a  safe location.    There`s been a lot of missed calls. So, you know, what I would say, be patient,  go to the center where, you know, it has been -- it has been organized to be  able to provide that type of information as to the status of their family  members.   
O`DONNELL: Congresswoman Norma Torres of California, thank you very much for joining us tonight, really appreciate it. We`re joined now here in the studio by  Eugene O`Donnell, former NYPD officer.    Eugene, describe the scope of the investigative apparatus that`s at work here  now and the various -- we have the coroner, for example, I just mentioned that.    That`s one investigation of its own with its own jurisdiction. We have local  police there, we have FBI, we have ATF. How is all that coordinated?   
EUGENE O`DONNELL, FORMER POLICE OFFICER, NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT: Not all is well, that has to be said. If you got moving pieces and moving parts and  you wonder how well information is imparted in the field.    Obviously, there`s an urgency here because the FBI has sort of left hanging out  there that this could be terrorism, which is a very significant announcement, so  hopefully, they could clarify that as soon as possible.    Law enforcement also nationwide is going to have to now -- they have to get back  in touch with the Muslim community to make sure there`s not copy cat incidents  against Muslims.    Because putting out terrorism so quickly can lead some -- lead to some bad  things happening in the short run.   
O`DONNELL: Now, the big departments around the country, NYPD, LAPD, they are trained for moments like this, situations like this.    San Bernardino, 60 miles east of Los Angeles, it`s kind of out there in the  middle of California, not the place where people would expect it.    If you ask me to guess where something like this was going to happen in  California, certainly wouldn`t have picked there.    A lot of us, they knew -- a lot of very easy escape roots out of there, root 10  is right there which can take you out to Phoenix and all the way to Florida.    This root 15 is right there to take you up to Las Vegas, you can go off in the  other direction up toward Malibu and up the coast, south to Mexico through San  Diego.    All instantaneous access to a different freeway that would take you in one of  those directions. So they had a lot of pressure on them, obviously, when that  manhunt started.    Have these people already made it a 100 miles from here, because it was hours  after the shooting before they were able to make contact with them and ended up  finding them within, you know, walking distance of where it all happened.   
O`DONNELL: Right, and I mean, it`s the street cops actually did the frontline here about --   
O`DONNELL: Yes --  
O`DONNELL: You know, bringing all these resources, but ultimately it`s street cops that happen upon these people and have to engage them -- these guys  apparently, they were dead-ending, they were not intending to get out of there.    They stayed in the vicinity, it looked like they were going to go to war with  the police once the police encountered them.   
O`DONNELL: Yes, I mean, it`s fascinating that they had masks and they had a vehicle. They had what looked like intent and plan to escape.    And yet they came back into San Bernardino. I mean, that`s the remarkable part  of the story.   
O`DONNELL: It really is. I mean, and this breaks kind of records in a way. Usually, you don`t have two people or more than two people involved in these  mass killings.    You usually don`t have women involved. It`s a very rare event, I think the FBI  study said like 3 out of 160. So, you have three people, one, a woman engaged in  a mass -- in a mass killing.    So -- but it really is important, hopefully the FBI will clarify this.  Obviously, if this is an act of terrorism, it opens up questions as to whether  this -- you know, is it a cell? Is it other cell or is it just an act of  workplace violence?   
O`DONNELL: And when you look at the equipment, you look at the way they were ready to go here, it`s the kind of case where you immediately start to think of  who else was involved, what other help did they have?   
O`DONNELL: Right, and I mean we think as a third, it sounds like there`s a third, maybe there`s a fourth. You know, there`s pandemonium, it`s not a great  time to get accurate with the statements.    When people go --   
O`DONNELL: Right --  
O`DONNELL: And engage in a mass murder in these, you know, situations, so there`s likely some stories that don`t necessarily, you know, they`re not  symmetrical.    You probably have a lot of --   
O`DONNELL: Right --  
O`DONNELL: Different story lines you have to pursue.  
O`DONNELL: All right, let`s listen to a husband whose wife was inside the building at the time of the shooting and what his wife said about one of the  shooters.       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She had already barricaded herself and the co-workers inside the building, but stands on the door, and that`s when she called me a little bit  before 11:00.   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did she see the gunmen description at all?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She just saw them from outside the window. Heavier set guy, big gun. She told me he had a mask on and like with a bunch of things on his  chest.    So, I`m assuming he had like a bullet proof vest or something like that --   
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Was he alone? --  
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What are you going to do when you see your wife?  
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I`m just going to hug her.      
O`DONNELL: We`re joined now by Nbc News Justice correspondent Pete Williams. Pete, we have you having a lead on the name, Syed Farooq on this, that`s now  being followed up and confirmed by the "L.A. Times" and other sources.    What more do we know about the suspects?   
PETE WILLIAMS, NBC NEWS: Well, it`s a convoluted investigative trail, Lawrence, as we understand it.    The witnesses that were in the room, in the Inland Regional Center said that  they thought they saw him come in, be nervous, leave and then after that, the  shooters came in.   
O`DONNELL: Pete, can I just stop you there? When you --  
WILLIAMS: Yes --  
O`DONNELL: Say him come in, do you mean Syed Farooq?  
WILLIAMS: I do --  
O`DONNELL: Yes. Now, whether he was one of the shooters or not at that point, they didn`t know. But there was a name, it was a lead.    It was the -- it was the lead that the police chief was talking about in the  very first news conference where he said we have some things to go on but we`re  not going to talk about them.    Partly because they had no idea where that would go. So that led them to a car,  and it also led them to this address in Redlands, California, with which he is  connected.    Authorities have now -- several authorities have now told us that as they get  further into this, they believe he is involved in this shooting, connected with  it in precisely what form they have yet to conclude.    For example, we don`t -- we cannot say ourselves that he is one of the two  people who were found in that SUV that was riddled with bullets earlier today in  which authorities later said a man and a woman were found.    We don`t know if he was one of those two. We don`t know if he is the third  person. We don`t know what the deal is with him other than authorities say they  believe he is involved in the shooting in some way.    That he may be the leader, he may have been one of the gunmen, they`re still  trying to nail that down. But so many officials have told us that they believe  he`s involved.    You`ve seen the search of the house connected to him in Redlands, so that`s part  of it. The fact is, that eight hours after the shooting, authorities still  haven`t identified everyone involved to their satisfaction.    They don`t know if others were involved, and they have no idea what the motive  is. You saw the FBI, special agent in charge in L.A. say that they haven`t ruled  out terrorism.    The only reason he said that we`re told is because they simply don`t know what  it is. So, they can`t say what it is if they don`t know what it is.    I`m told that there isn`t some additional evidence that points toward terrorism  like literature left by or things on social message, none of that.    They still don`t know what the motive was, it doesn`t certainly seem like  someone just walking in, getting mad, coming back with two friends who were  willing to kill a bunch of people.    It seemed much more planned than that, but why, they still don`t know.   
O`DONNELL: And Pete, do we have it confirmed that Syed Farooq was employed at the Inland Regional Center as an environmental health services specialist?   
WILLIAMS: Let`s be very careful with this Lawrence, it`s a good question that you ask. We know, we believe that a person named Syed Farooq was in fact in  essence a restaurant health inspector.    Whether that`s the same Syed Farooq who authorities say was involved in the  shooting, we don`t know.   
O`DONNELL: And there`s a report indicating that Syed Farooq`s brother was also involved in this. What -- how do we substantiate that at this point?   
WILLIAMS: We`ve been told that by some authorities, but we haven`t confirmed it, Lester, we`ve certainly heard that, but I don`t know.    And that`s -- it leads us to another -- it leads us to some incompleteness in  what the authorities have told us.    They`ve said that there were two people in that SUV and that a third person got  away and that third person was detained, but they don`t know what the role the  third person played in the shooting, whether he played any role or not.    Well, if that`s the case, then where is the fourth person if there were three  shooters, where is that other shooter? Were there four people involved?    I mean these are still -- you know, you think we`d know all the answer to all  these questions, but we don`t because the authorities don`t. It`s a very rapidly  unfolding investigation and these things take time.   
O`DONNELL: Pete Williams, thank you very much for joining us and clarifying all that for us, really appreciate it, Pete, thank you. We`re joined now again by  Jacob Soboroff who is in San Bernardino live.    Jacob, what`s going on at your location now?   
SOBOROFF: Hey, Lawrence, so as you can see in our live shot right now, you`re going to have a truck pass through in just a second.    But we are watching right in front of us probably about 300 feet a bomb disposal  robot pick up some type of material off the street.    And it looks like put it into a box, whether or not they`re going to detonate  that box, we`re not sure.    But obviously, there is a big concern here at the Inland Regional Center as well  and out in Redlands where they`re searching the suspect`s home about the  potential for explosive devices.    It`s something that they had also told me just a couple of hours ago when we  were in another nearby residential neighborhood in this area to be concerned  about explosives.    And I think you guys have this live picture right now of this bomb disposal  robot. Again, that`s about 300 feet away from us, putting some sort of material  into a box directly next to it.   
O`DONNELL: Jacob, we do have the shot and we`re watching it. And is it true that what we`re seeing as traffic is passing by, this situation as this is going on.    They haven`t -- they haven`t blocked traffic from passing that area?   
SOBOROFF: A little bit, Lawrence, there. The traffic is blocked to that street, but amazingly, yes, there is some cross-traffic coming perpendicular to the  street that this bomb disposal robot is actually on right now.    They`re waving cars through it, I see two black and white police cars, there is  not the aggressive police presence that we had seen earlier this evening, at  least at this intersection.    As I told you earlier in the hour, just another block away from here. Whether  it`s the manhunt or again, another search for a suspect or perhaps explosive  devices like the one we`re looking at right now.    There`s something else going on just a block up the road, but here directly in  front of us, all of a sudden, the black and whites put up, this yellow police  tape both on this side of the robot and on the other side, you can see it right  now, the arms extending.    And it looks like they`re going put some sort of material, whatever it picked up  from nearby to thein that box, hopefully just out of an abundance  of caution.   
O`DONNELL: Jacob --  
SOBOROFF: And it looks like it`s a backpack, Lawrence, I`m being told.  
O`DONNELL: OK, what is the location -- I mean, we`ve seen a variety of locations today, including the location where the SUV was stopped. What location is this?   
SOBOROFF: This location is a mile and a half away from the Inland Regional Center, and I would say, you know, perhaps, equal or plus or minus, just about  the same distance from the location the suspects were engage in the shootout  with law enforcement earlier today.    You know, incredibly, all of this is taking place within a relatively small  geographic area over the course of the day, starting at around 11:14 this  morning Pacific Time when that first call came in.   
O`DONNELL: So, this location where the bomb disposal robot is right now is not the same spot where they closed in on that SUV, but it is -- it is near that  spot?   
SOBOROFF: That`s correct, Lawrence. And it`s also -- I would say, pretty close to equal distance from the location of the shooting this morning where we`ve  heard reports of potential, you know, explosive devices being - - Blake  McCoy, our colleague from Nbc News reported that in the last hour with  Rachel.    We`re now looking at this bomb disposal robot move slightly away from the box  here that`s on the ground, and that arms is extended in the air.    I`m trying to get a closer look at it, Lawrence, through our camera right now.  But it looks like a relatively small package that it`s got.    And they`re going to -- I think what`s going to happen is, they`re going to see  that arm extend downward and place whatever is on that robot into the box that  we`re looking at.   
O`DONNELL: Jacob Soboroff, thank you very much for joining us live from San Bernardino. Eugene O`Donnell, as you take a look at that bomb disposal robot  there, this is obviously an abundance of caution.    That`s exactly the way they should be treating anything that they see  mysteriously on anywhere near any of these locations.   
O`DONNELL: Yes, no question about it, and actually people in the area, if they see anything at all suspicious should call, they should continue to call until  they stand this down.    But it would be interesting to see how much the police know about the movements  of these people after these events and whether they`ve actually, physically  assessed any place they could be to make sure that they did not leave any  explosive devices or evidence or anything that would connect them to the crime.    Obviously, ultimately, there could be -- there can be -- is going to be a  criminal case here, and so that`s another concern. You`re going to have to  perhaps bring one or more people to justice.    And so, you know, if they were all dead, you wouldn`t have to be so careful, but  in this case, you, they left behind or whether there`s  something they could engage with the public.    So, where were these guys in the period after this event, this kind of crucial  concern.   
O`DONNELL: Joining us now is Andrew Blankstein, an Nbc News investigative reporter and former "Los Angeles Times" reporter.    Also joining us is Candice DeLong, former FBI profiler. Candice DeLong, as you  see this bomb disposal robot going to work here, this is the kind of thing that  they have no choice about, I assume at this point.    If somebody says, hey, there`s a backpack by the side of the road there, there  is no police officer who should go anywhere near it.   
CANDICE DELONG, FORMER FBI PROFILER: Yes, absolutely true. And I have seen these bomb disposal robots in action up in Montana on a unabomber case. It`s too  dangerous for a human to do.    And the robot does the job very well.   
O`DONNELL: And talk about what has to be developed here as Eugene O`Donnell was just mentioning in terms of abe doing in terms of  anticipation--   
DELONG: Evidence, one of the things that concerns me, there`s a report out of San Francisco on news agency that says that the SUV used by the suspects was  rented from a car rental place on Monday by a man with a Middle Eastern name and  an employment verification returned information that he was a county employee.    Earlier in your broadcast, now a name is being mentioned, it looks to me like a  very good probability, obviously, reports earlier that somebody was at -- one of  the suspects was at the party and was asked to leave or got into a dispute and  left.    Maybe came back angry, obviously this was in planning for a long time. One of  the things in terms of what are agents on the ground actually doing now, they`re  following leads, they`re connecting the dots.    Did these people work? Was it just the three or four of them? Did they have any  kind of outside support? Things like that.   
O`DONNELL: Andrew Blankstein, as we`re watching this bomb disposal robot, you know, go to work here on what appears to have been a backpack.    Have you been -- have you been following the investigation all day, your  customers dealing with these authorities, did you sense a change in focus at  some point about what it was they were dealing with from a work place rage  incident to something else?   
ANDREW BLANKSTEIN, INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER, NBC NEWS: I think it`s still open to interpretations.    I mean, one of the things was that you did get some of those reports early on  that this could be a workplace violence.    But one of the things in covering these stories is that certain things slip out  at certain times. And I think the assistant director in charge of the FBI, L.A.  office gaveone and to leave open the possibility.    You know, there was a lot of criticism, Lawrence, back in 2002. There was a  shooting at L.A.X. involving a suspect by the name of Mohammed Hadayet.    At that time, authorities came out, including the FBI within several hours of  that incident and said, we are ruling out terrorism. And, there was a lot of  criticism in that decision. I think this time around, given what we know about  what happened, and that is limited, because in the next number of hours they are  going to be trying to get a timeline together, geographic movement.    They are also going to try to get a sense of the background of anybody that was  involved or anybody that was connected to any of these suspects. So, I think as  we go on, what you saw today is that you are building out concentric circles,  but you are not trying to commit to any one theory at this point.   
O`DONNELL: And, Andrew, you know Los Angeles well, covered it extensively. Talk about San Bernardino, 60 miles east of Los Angeles. Talk about that police  department`s capacity for handling an event like this today.   
BLANKSTEIN: One of the good things about law enforcement in southern California is that generally speaking, there is a lot of cooperation not only between those  departments and their county sheriffs.    In this case, you saw San Bernardino city and San Bernardino County Sheriffs,  but you also saw cooperation immediate with federal authorities, the FBI, ATF,  Homeland Security. And, there is very good relationships out here.    And, whether it is the LAPD or the LA County Sheriffs, which obviously there is  a lot of crimes that have been in the news for those departments over time. Or  if you go down to San Diego, Ventura, there is just a lot of those  relationships. They drill together.    And, so, I think that was one of the things that you saw. There is always going  to be sometimes, where people kind of step on each other`s toes, but in this  instance it appears that they worked well together.   
O`DONNELL: And, that stepping on the toes, that has traditionally been an issue for some departments when it comes to federal authorities coming in. But, in the  age of terror, now that we are dealing with the possibility of terrorism  incidents, has that changed a lot? Are the local departments happy to see the  FBI, the ATF come in, Homeland Security whenever something like this is  suspected as possibly being terrorists?   
BLANKSTEIN: I think it depends on the department, but largely speaking, people now that you cannot -- given the geographic layout of Southern California and  the limits in terms of personnel, that you really do need to work together,  whether it is with federal partners or departments near you.    And, especially when you look at L.A. County, which has 88 cities, there has  been in a last decade and a half, a real move to try to integrate those  departments more when it comes to cooperation. And, you see it on various kind  of large scale crimes, but it is definitely improved, certainly in the time I  have been covering law enforcement out here.   
O`DONNELL: NBC`s Blake McCoy joins us now live near the scene of today`s shooting in San Bernardino. Blake, what is the situation there now?   
BLAKE MCCOY, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT, SAN BERNDINO: Lawrence, this is where it all began around 11:00 A.M. local time this morning. And, remarkably, eight  hours later, we are still being kept two blocks away. And, that is because they  have yet to secure, to fully secure that Inland Regional Center.    About an hour and a half ago, we had a local police officer come up to us and  say, "If you hear an explosion, it is because we found a device that we deemed  suspicious enough, a possible explosive device to detonate it, to neutralize  it."    We have not actually heard an explosion, so we do not know if that happened, but  they were preparing to neutralize some sort of device. This is just one of three  active crime scenes right now.    And, I believe we have some video to show you of the evacuation around the time  it happened. Someone inside that Inland Regional Center taking video with their  cell phone as people were being rushed out. This is a large center.    Three story building. Three wings to the building. Based on the organization`s  Facebook page, there is at least 670 people, who work in the building, not to  mention any patients that were there as well. So, a frantic scene as they were  moving everyone out.    They moved them across the street to the golf course and we saw them checking  people is I.D.s to make sure that these were, in fact, people evacuating the  building and not one of the shooters. So, right now, three active crime scenes  Lawrence, and they are still working to neutralize suspicious devices, we are  told, at all three of them.   
O`DONNELL: Blake, what do we know about the timing of that evacuation? And, what I mean is the timing of the shooting begins around 11:20 A.M. How soon do police  arrive? What makes the shooters flee the scene? Why do they flee the scene? Is  it because the police have arrived? And, then how long does it take after they  have fled the scene for the evacuation to occur?   
MCCOY: That is a good question, because if you remember at the Colorado Springs shooting last Friday, the police arrived and the suspect was still there. And,  there was this long drawn-out shootout for five hours. That was not the case at  all here.    From what witnesses are saying, these gunmen burst into this conference center.  They open fired and it was very quick, and they took off. They had the intention  of trying to get away. So, it is not like a lot of these cases where we see, and  the gunman is hold up inside, taking hostages, you know, potentially wearing a  suicide vest. That was not this at all.    Instead, the way we understand it is the shooting happened very quickly. And,  then those gunmen took off. Police responded almost immediately and local  hospitals began preparing to take the victims, which we now know were  substantial amount of victims, 14 dead, 17 injuries; 18 if you include the  police officer, who was injured at another location in the shootout.   
O`DONNELL: So, Blake, the best we can make out of the way it played out is that the murderers left before the police arrived?   
MCCOY: That is exactly right. And, witnesses reported seeing a black SUV drive away. So, that is why authorities were on the lookout for that black SUV. A tip  led them to that other location, that home that they are currently searching  right now, about six miles from here.    They say when they were going to that home, they spotted that black SUV and that  is when the chase ensued, which ended about two miles from my location here. So,  the suspects were able to get away from here before the police arrived,    But, it is that black SUV that witnesses spotted driving away that eventually  led to the suspects. It was four hours later and they did not switch vehicles.  They were still in the same vehicle, we believe, that they escaped the scene  from.   
O`DONNELL: And, Eugene O`Donnell, what is so fascinating about all of that is by the time, they are getting back in that black SUV. It is being reported  throughout Southern California that this has happened. This was saturation news  coverage there.    So, they could conceivably have been at home even seeing some of this news  coverage on television, possibly before they get back in the suspect vehicle the  witnesses have already identified.   
O`DONNELL: No doubt. I think we recognized the buzz they must get out of this. The bizarre and inexplicable buzz they must get. No doubt they saw police cars  coming, heard sirens. They knew this was the number one event in the country  that they had precipitated. And, they waited in the vicinity, whether to see the  damage they caused or for whatever the reason, but it did not seem like they  were intent on really making a clean getaway.   
O`DONNELL: The bomb disposal robot that we have been watching seems to have done its job at that location with whatever that was. We now have that video that  Blake was talking about from inside the building earlier today when people were  evacuating. Let us listen. .       
UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER: Go. Go. Go. Keep walking and keep your hands right where I could see them. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Relax, everyone. Try to  relax. I will take a bullet before you do, that is for damn sure. Just stay  cool. OK?       
O`DONNELL: Jim Cavanaugh, it seems like the bomb disposal unit has done its job at that location. And, watching that video, that cell phone video that someone  took of people being evacuated from that building, sadly it seems like it is the  kind of video we will probably be seeing more of in these events in the future.   
CAVANAUGH: Yes, I agree with you, Lawrence. It just happens too much, but you are exactly right. The robot, the bomb squad robot would use a disruptor charge  to hit the package, the backpack or box or whatever they are looking at. It  sliced it to open it up. And, then they can get a look at the contents and make  sure it is an explosive device.    And, of course, the uniform patrol here is in here quick. And, they are trying  to get people out through a corridor. They know that they will be safe egress.  And, we saw then all day taking them to across golf course across the street.  So, you know, it is just going to be not a simple motive when we see it.    I think that people -- If it is only two or maybe it is three arriving there  with mask on, pitching something that was a bomb, mowing down everybody in the  conference center. This is going to be an interesting motive to see, just  exactly what is driving this kind of violence and carnage at this particular  group of people today.   
O`DONNELL: And, Jim, it is such a strange package of motivations here. When you see that they go in there at 11:20 A.M., they are masked, they are prepared to  do this murdering and they are prepared to flee. And, they seemed to follow that  plan. They go in there. They do the shooting. They killed 14 people. They wound  17 others. They get themselves out of there into the black SUV.    And, then very, very strangely, hours later, they come back. They come back to  this area in that same black SUV. And, so, what looked like a team of murderers  that was trying to escape becomes a team that returns close to the scene of the  crime, where they know most police in Southern California are congregated.   
CAVANAUGH: Well, that is right. I mean they went back to the house in Redlands. It is not clear from the chief`s description whether they were inside the house,  and the surveillance saw them leave or they came up and turned around.    You know, they could have went back and got some more ammunition. They could  have went back, as you described, and watch the news. You know, like Gene was  saying that this is really something. They captured America`s attention. They  are watching the chaos that they have unleashed on the country.    And, then they get back in the vehicle. And, from what the chief said, it was a  surveillance in the beginning. So, they might have went right back toward the  scene of the mass murder to see the chaos they have unleashed. This is not  unusual. We have seen it with bombers and arsons.    You saw it in Paris. They have a suit. They went back to the cafes and the  Bataclan theatre and to see what carnage he had wreaked. And, of course, he  might have had additional motive to film some of that for propaganda. But,  nevertheless, it is not unusual for these kind of killers to want the see the  chaos they have created.   
O`DONNELL: Five of the adults who were wounded were taken about three miles away to the Loma Linda Hospital. NBC`s Morgan Radford joins us live from that  hospital. Morgan, what do we know about how those patients are being treated  tonight?   
MORGAN RADFORD, NBC NEWS, LOMA LINDA HOSPITAL: Lawrence, we do know that of those five victims, who were wounded and brought here to Loma Linda, two of them  are in critical condition. Two of them are in fair condition, and one`s  condition is still being determined.    But, that said, Lawrence, just earlier today, at 2:30 P.M., right when we were  standing here. There was a bomb threat called into this hospital. Then just an  hour later, it was lifted after a unit of canines came in. And, they later  determined that, that threat was not, in fact, credible. Meanwhile, families  continue to trickle in, trying to find out anything they can about their loved  ones.    Earlier today, I spoke to one of the security guards, who was actually guarding  the entrance where the family members are coming in. And, she spoke to three or  four different family members, one of whom was just a young man who was waiting  to see how his uncle was doing. So, you are hearing personal tails emerge right  here out of this hospital. As families right now, Lawrence, are playing the  waiting game.   
O`DONNELL: And, Morgan, how many people are being treated at that hospital at this point?   
RADFORD: There is 17 people, who are wounded today, but five of those 17 are being treated here at Loma Linda.   
O`DONNELL: And, others have been taken to other facilities?  
RADFORD: To other trauma facilities right here in San Bernardino and a nearby area. But, we are also seeing choppers that were leaving here as emergency  vehicles continue to come in.    But, here at Loma Linda, hospital authorities are saying they are not expecting  any more victims from today`s shooting to come here tonight. And, they say that  tomorrow they will be treating victims as business as usual.   
O`DONNELL: Morgan Radford, thank you very much for joining us with that report. I really appreciate it. We are joined now from Sacramento by Eileen Richey. She  is the Executive Director of the Association of Regional Center Agencies, which  represents the Inland Regional Center, where today`s mass shooting took place.  Tell us about the work that takes place at this center and who would be there  today in the course of the normal day.   
EILEEN RICHEY, EXEC. DIR. ASSOC. OF REG. CENTER AGENCIES: Yes. Well, thank you for having me here today. It is certainly a very tragic event. Inland Regional  Center is one of 21 regional centers that serve 290,000 individuals with  developmental disabilities here in the state of California.    At each regional center, there is a variety of services that regional centers  provide, intake, evaluation, case management. And, they provide those services  to individuals who have epilepsy, autism, cerebral palsy, intellectual  disabilities and similar disabilities.    So, there would be clients, people with developmental disabilities and family  members, who would be going to the regional center to either meet with their  case manager or go to the local regional center to partake in a seminar or a  clinic.    And, so at any one time, there are a fair amount of individuals with  developmental disabilities in their families at the regional center. Inland  Regional center is actually the largest regional center in the state of  California. They serve 30,600 individuals. And, they have a staff of around 650.   
O`DONNELL: And, what was it like for all of you working in this system, the regional center system to learn today, as the news reports developed early in  the afternoon about the location of this mass murder today. What was it like for  you all?   
RICHEY: Well, you know, I guess I was very surprised at how quickly the information was relay out. There was very quick communication. We were alerted  by a neighboring regional center, who had an employee had a son, who worked at  Inland.    And, so, we then proceeded to contact all of the other regional centers in the  state as well as coordinating -- they were coordinating with the department of  developmental services. So, there was very good communication.    All of the regional centers then reached out to their local police agencies to  confer with those agencies on whether or not they should locally take steps.  And, as a result of that, about eight regional centers ended up closing early  today on the advice of local police.   
O`DONNELL: And, what is the plan for tomorrow? Do the regional centers at this point feel safe to open tomorrow?   
RICHEY: Well, I think we are going to wait and see. We have done, I think, a good job of getting information out and keeping people informed. I do know that  Inland Regional Center will be closed until Monday. They have informed us that  all of their employees are, in fact, safe. And, that consumers that they served  were not harmed.    There were not any family members or individuals with developmental  disabilities, who were harmed during this attack. So, it is great sadness that  individuals lost their lives and were injured during this attack and our hearts  and prayers go out to those families.   
O`DONNELL: And, Eugene O`Donnell, one of the great pains for the regional centers will -- may turn out to be that one of the murderers involved was an  employee of this regional center.    And, as that is working its way through the system to get confirmed, there was  someone working at the regional center with the name of the one of suspects.  And, we will see if that is that person. But, one of the first questions people  are going to want to know is how long did he work there?   
EUGENE O`DONNELL: Yes. You know, it does sound like humiliation. And, I guess terrorism and humiliation, some of those things are interconnected. So, perhaps,  it is perception that he was being bullied in the workplace; or if these facts  turned out to be the case that perceived national origin or religion was the  basis of some sort of bullying that he encountered and he became enraged about  that. So, that is what it sounds like it might be. And, in that sense it might  cover both work place violence and sort of some terroristic motive.   
O`DONNELL: We are back with Candice DeLong, a retired FBI Profiler. Candice, what would you be looking for in the profiles of Syed Farook and anyone else  involved?   
DELONG: Well, I think it is going to be very interesting. You asked the question, how long had he worked there? I think that is very important. I agree.  I believe that was Mr. Cavanaugh who just said, this could be -- that because of  his ethnicity, he was being subjected to some problems at work, because he is  Middle Eastern.    And, the whole thing looks kind of -- it looks to me like if -- he is an  employee there. On the face of it, the first thing I thought this morning, I  thought this is an odd place for terrorism. And, it is an odd place for  workplace revenge, although that can happen anywhere. We have no information  that any of the clients, some would call them patients, people that receive  services, were injured.    Just the people, possibly employees of this one particular agency, and perhaps  an agency that one of the suspects -- the suspect that is the employee worked  with. But, this was not a kind of revenge thing where somebody made him mad, he  went home and got a gun. This has been in the planning for a long time.   
O`DONNELL: Yes.  
DELONG: I think we may probably find -- well, it looks more like revenge to me, but there may have some political overtones.   
O`DONNELL: Yes, and --  
DELONG: But it does not mean it states sponsored terrorism.  
O`DONNELL: And, that part of California, San Bernardino, there is a settlement of people whose heritage is from the Middle East. And, in fact, there was a  front page article on Sunday "Los Angeles Times" this weekend about a Syrian  refugee family that had been resettled actually quite close to there, because  they had friends and people who they knew in that area.    And, so, I have to say that the notion that someone named, Syed Farook, working  at the Inland Regional Center would not surprise me. And, Eugene, I do not think  people working there would be struck by that. I think that would not -- that  would strike me as very unlikely to be an element of friction there.    Whatever friction he would have had as a worker there, I think would have been  of some personal nature that was not a matter of discrimination in that  community, I do not think.   
EUGENE O`DONNELL: Yes. I mean I think that there is a lot of work place bullying.   
O`DONNELL: Yes.  
EUGENE O`DONNELL: And, there is a lot of workplace violence. And, we do not always see it, but the police certainly see it and it comes to their attention.  And, you know, I would not certainly say it look like it is heading in the  direction, perhaps that this guy has some connection, some real -- his  religious.    He is connected to events in the Middle East, but also this is more of a  personal issue. But, we have the intersection of the personal and his political  or religious beliefs. They may come together in this event.   
O`DONNELL: Stay with us, we will be right back with more of our live coverage.  
O`DONNELL: We are joined now by Andy Blankstein in our studio in Los Angeles. He is an NBC Investigative Reporter. Andrew, there have been reports now about Syed  Farook. More reports developing, some quotes from his father about him, saying  that, "He was married and has a kid and he does not understand this." Are we  developing any more information about Syed Farook or any of the other suspects?   
BLANKSTEIN: Right now, sources are saying it is still trying to background the suspect. They are getting some of that same reports, obviously. There is  interviews going on. Search warrants being served in connection with this case.    I think what we will see in fairly rapid succession is trying to, again,  reference concentric circles; getting started with people that were close to him  or others involved in this, and then working out from that. And, then, also, try  to build in a timeline that would lead up to this. So, trying and get some kind  of a motive here, was it work place related? Was it something else?    And, so, we will see some of these reports. But I think the important thing to  remember here and we have seen it time and again with mass shootings is that  people tend to take slivers of this and then try to extrapolate out from it as  though they can ascertain motive. And, I think one of the things that they need  to do is really keep moving forward to really get what is the clear picture.   
O`DONNELL: Jacob Soboroff, at your location there, we have on video right now the bomb squad is now going straight into that backpack as we can see, it looks  like there is no danger there.   
SOBOROFF: That is right, Lawrence. So, you know, as you are saying earlier this evening. These searches are happening out of abundance of caution all over the  San Bernadino County area, also in Redlands.    It looks like a cocky or a camou backpack, that these, I would presume bomb  squad officers are going through after this -- the robot was moving this  backpack around. You know see the officers kicking it through. Obviously, lookie  loos now are pulling up. You can see this truck this car right in front. But, it  looks for now, Lawrence, that this potential threat is not one.   
O`DONNELL: Yes, I just wanted to follow up on this with our audience that saw this one earlier tonight, when the bomb disposal robot was out there approaching  that backpack and picking it up. And, that is the backpack that they retrieved  at that point.    And, so, by the time you have officers actually handling the backpack  themselves, they have already established that there is no danger to them when  they are getting in that close to it.   
SOBOROFF: And, I should say, Lawrence, you know, as things become clear around here and sort of the fog is always in its craziness list. We are just a short  ways away from where the shootout with the suspects earlier today occurred.    And, so, obviously everybody in this area is on edge. Everything that is going  on in this neighborhood is being looked up very closely by law enforcement  officials in the area. So, again, just up that street, we are now starting to  get some clarity. The shootout with the suspects ended just right up there and  around the corner there in San Bernadino.   
O`DONNELL: We are joined now by Kevin Knierim. He is a former FBI Agent and a co-founder and Managing Director of Cyopsis. Kevin, what do you make of these  developments tonight on the suspects?   
KEVIN KNIERIM, FMR. FBI SPECIAL AGENT: Well, I think it will be really interesting as the dust clears overnight and as they start to develop all the  leads that are going to just pour in that, you know, obviously, the questions  are, is it something other than domestic violence or, you know, anger at the  workplace.   
O`DONNELL: And, the information we are developing now indicates that there were at least three shooters. And, as we talked to Pete Williams at the beginning of  this hour, the way he tracked the number of references that investigators made  today about who was apprehended and who seemed to have gotten away, there is the  possibility that there was a fourth person involved in this.    But, that would also raise the question, the investigative question beyond the  shooters, who went into the regional center and murdered 14 people. Was anyone  else involved who did not actually participate in the event?   
KNIERIM: Right. And, as we have seen in the events in Paris, you know, whether this was terrorism or not, they do not do this in a vacuum, and they need help.  They are purchasing guns somewhere. You do not just buy a bullet proof vest off  the street either. So, all of that will need to be sorted out to find any  accomplices, obviously.   
O`DONNELL: Eugene O`Donnell, what would you suggest to people they should expect as a pace in this investigation? You know, we are going to be having these press  conferences and press briefings frequently throughout tonight. And, then  tomorrow, there will be some. But, you know, people want answers, they want them  fast. How much patience do people going to need?   
EUGENE O`DONNELL: Well, I mean, law enforcement is trying to give as much information as they can, but they often regret doing it, because storyline does  change. So, they are trying to brief people, but sometimes they become  victimized by putting out too much information. You know, there is conspiracy  theory of terrorist is already at work. I am sure -- In some ways, the less said  the better as far as a matter of investigation, but there is also a need to  restore public confidence --   
O`DONNELL: Yes. I mean, that is a big part of it. Here you have San Bernardino, a community that, you know, certainly, has no experience with something like  this. It is true of, you know, virtually all of our communities in the United  States. And, people have to go to work tomorrow. And, they know who the police  chief is in San Bernardino.   
EUGENE O`DONNELL: Right.  
O`DONNELL: And, so, within the department, there is understood to be a value for that chief to be out there on the 11:00 news tonight and on the news tomorrow,  explaining to people everything he can, she can about what the situation is  there.   
EUGENE O`DONNELL: Absolutely. And, the sad part is kind of pointy is that the police are getting good for this.   
O`DONNELL: Yes.  
EUGENE O`DONNELL: And, we wish they were not, but they were in training for this, I think today, actually when this was happening. So, S.W.A.T. teams all  over the country trained every day, virtually, for these kinds of events.    And, the great tragedy is to become skilled at it and getting better at  responding. It would be good to get the guns out of the country. Law enforcement  has to be the patchwork for the regulation. They have access to assault rifles,  which is extraordinary.   
O`DONNELL: Our coverage continues now.  
